You know, I am by my nature impatient.
And this is not an endeavor that rewards that.
You gotta be patient.
You gotta be — stick with it, and all that.
But also, I can't fake anger.
I believe this is still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth.
And it troubles me that people are rewarded for tearing down our country.
It's never been that way in American politics before.
I can't do it.
I just don't believe that this country's days are going to be deeply — you know, going down.
I think we're on the verge of the greatest time, and I want to fix the things to let people rise up.
Could I — could I bring something up here, because I'm a constituent of the senator and I helped him and I expected that he would do constituent service, which means that he shows up to work.
He got endorsed by the Sun-Sentinel because he was the most talented guy in the field.
He's a gifted politician.
But Marco, when you signed up for this, this was a six-year term, and you should be showing up to work.
I mean, literally, the Senate — what is it, like a French work week? You get, like, three days where you have to show up? You can campaign, or just resign and let someone else take the job.
There are a lot of people living paycheck to paycheck in Florida as well, they're looking for a senator that will fight for them each and every day.
He wasn't my senator.
Well, I've been —
No, no.
What I said was I don't believe that I would be president of the United States and have the same dysfunction that exists in Washington, D.C. now.
Don't vote for me if you want to keep the gridlock in Washington, D.C. But if you want someone who has a proven, effective leadership, that was a governor of a state, that transformed the culture there, elect me so I can fight for the American people and change the culture in Washington, D.C. (inaudible), the great majority of Republicans and Americans believe in a hopeful future.
They don't believe in building walls and a pessimistic view of the future.
They're concerned that Washington is so dysfunctional it is holding them back.
There are lids on people's aspirations.
Think about it: six and a half million people working part-time.
Workforce participation rates lower than they were in 1977.
Six million more people living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president, and the left just wants more of the same.
We have to offer a compelling alternative that is based on hope and optimism and grounded in serious policy, which I've laid out.
And you can go get it at jeb2016.com.
Well, the deal was done.
Barack Obama got his massive tax increase, and there was no spending cuts.
You just see the recent deal announced today or yesterday, more spending, more tax increasing, more regulation.
And now we have to accept 2 percent, the new normal for economic growth.
And the net result is the middle class has $2,300 less in their pockets than the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
And now they see Hillary Clinton proposing a third term of economic policy for our country.
We need to reverse that.
And my record was one of cutting taxes each and every year.
You don't have to guess about it, because I actually have a record.
$19 billion of tax cuts, 1.3 million jobs created.
We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating, and our government spending was far less than the spending in people's income.
You find me…
You find me a Democrat — you find me a Democrat that will cut spending ten dollars? Heck, find me a Republican in Congress that would cut spending ten dollars.
I'll talk to them.
Look, the — the deal is already done.
The biggest tax increase happened under the watch of Barack Obama, and spending's gone up.
You find a Democrat that's for cutting taxes — cutting spending ten dollars, I'll give them a warm kiss.
Look, the — the simple fact is that my plan actually gives the middle class the greatest break: $2,000 per family.
And if you make $40,000 a year, a family of four, you don't pay any income tax at all.
Simplifying the code and lowering rates, both for corporations and — and personal rates, is exactly what we need to do.
You think about the regulatory cost and the tax cost — that's why small businesses are closing, rather than being formed in our country right now.
The big corporations have the scale to deal with all of this.
And what I think all of us are saying is, our monetary policy, our tax policy, regulatory policy needs to be radically changed so we can create high sustained growth for income to rise.
The government has tried it their way.
Under — under Barack Obama and the proposals of Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and others, they've tried it their way, and it has failed miserably.
We need to take a new approach of taxing — reforming how we tax, and reforming the regulations in our — in our country before it's too late.
We don't need the federal government to be involved in this at all.
We don't need the Federal Government to be involved in this, because when they do we create a $1.2 trillion debt.
In Florida, we have the lowest in-state tuition of any state, because there's accountability, just as John said.
Let the states do this.
You'll create a much better graduation rate at a lower cost, and you won't in debt the next generation with recourse debt on their backs.
It's always a solution of the left to create more Government from the Federal Government.
It is broke, it is not working.
Well, first of all, I'm 7 and 0 in my fantasy league.
Gronkowski is still going strong.
I have Ryan Tannehill, Marco, as my quarterback, he was 18 for 19 last week.
So I'm doing great.
But we're not gambling.
And I think this has become something that needs to be looked at in terms of regulation.
Effectively it is day trading without any regulation at all.
And when you have insider information, which apparently has been the case, where people use that information and use big data to try to take advantage of it, there has to be some regulation.
If they can't regulate themselves, then the NFL needs to look at just, you know, moving away from them a little bit.
And there should be some regulation.
I have no clue whether the federal government is the proper place, my instinct is to say, hell no, just about everything about the federal government.
Becky —
— the governor's absolutely right.
But we also need to reform Medicare and Social Security.
We can't just allow it to continue on its current path the way that Hillary Clinton wants to do because there'll be major reductions in benefits in the next decade if we do nothing.
I have a concrete plan to do just that, which allows people to keep HSAs to encourage savings, it allows for people that are retiring with Social Security to be able to get a minimum of 125 percent of the poverty level so that there is a baseline that in this generous country of ours no one goes below.
You have to reform Social Security, and the simple way to do it is to make sure that the wealthiest don't receive the same benefits as people that are lower-income.
And make sure you enhance savings in the private market.
The idea of 401(k)s.
I have a small business that I set up.
It took — it took an arm and a leg to be able to set up a 401(k).
Because of all the federal mandates and federal laws, it was too expensive.
We need to incent private savings and make sure that Social Security is protected for those that have it.
But the idea that you can't — that you're just gonna grow your way out of this — I have a plan to grow the economy at 4 percent, but you're gonna have to make adjustments for both Medicare and Social Security.
America's at a crossroads.
The D.C. politicians continue to make things worse.
I have a proven record of success, 32 years in business, and 8 years as Governor of the state of Florida.
I will change the culture in Washington, just as I changed the culture in Tallahassee.
I will do so in a way that will bring people together.
We need a unifier, not a cynical divider in chief, and that's exactly what I will do.
Imagine a country where people are lifted out of poverty again.
Imagine a country where the middle class can get rising income again.
I know we can do this because we're still the most extraordinary country on the face of the Earth.
I'm Jeb Bush, and I believe America's on the verge of its greatest century, and I'm ready to lead.
I'm a committed, conservative reformer that cut taxes, that balanced budgets, that took on the special interest in Florida, and we won.
I look forward to talking tonight about how we can fix a broken Washington D.C., and create an environment where people can rise up again in this great country.
Thank you.
I think the voters will make that determination.
But what I know to be true is that the next president of the United States is going to have to fix an extraordinary difficult situation.
This administration, with President Obama and Hillary Clinton, has created insecurity the likes of which we never would've imagined.
There's not a place in the world where we're better off today than six and a half years ago.
And that requires a steadiness.
That requires an understanding of how the world works.
That requires an understanding and appreciation of American leadership in the world.
You can't just, you know, talk about this stuff and insult leaders around the world and expect a good result.
You have to do this with a steady hand, and I believe I have those skills.
No.
Absolutely not.
People are supporting me because I have a proven record of conservative leadership where I cut taxes $19 billion over eight years.
We shrunk the state government workforce, we created a climate that led the nation in job growth seven out of eight years.
We were one of two states to go to AAA bond rating.
People know that we need principle-centered leadership, a disrupter to go to Washington, D.C. The one guy that had some special interests that I know of that tried to get me to change my views on something — that was generous and gave me money — was Donald Trump.
He wanted casino gambling in Florida —
Yes you did.
You wanted it and you didn't get it because I was opposed to —
— casino gambling before —
during and after.
And that's not — I'm not going to be bought by anybody.
No way.
Believe me.
Not even possible.
— because you gave her money.
Maybe it works for Hillary Clinton —
— it doesn't work for anybody on this — on stage.
But the simple fact is —
No.
The simple fact is, Donald, you could not take —
I was asked the question.
So he supports Pelosi, he supports Schumer, he supports Clinton —
When he — and he — when he asked — when he asked Florida to have casino gambling, we said no.
We said no.
And that's the simple fact.
The simple fact is —
Don't cut me off.
No, I don't think so, but we need to be strong against China.
We should use offensive tactics as it relates to cyber security, send a deterrent signal to China.
There should be super sanctions in what President Obama has proposed.
There's many other tools that we have without canceling a dinner.
That's not going to change anything, but we can be much stronger as it relates to that.
As it relates to Iran, it's not a strategy to tear up an agreement.
A strategy would be how do we confront Iran? And, the first thing that we need to do is to establish our commitment to Israel which has been altered by this administration.
And, make sure that they have the most sophisticated weapons to send a signal to Iran that we have Israel's back.
If we do that, it's going to create a healthier deterrent effect than anything else I can think of.
I don't think — you're not stating my views right.
I think there needs to be accommodation for someone acting on faith.
Religious conscience is — is — is a first freedom.
It's — it's a powerful part of our — of our Bill of Rights.
And, in a big, tolerant country, we should respect the rule of law, allow people in — in — in this country — I'm a — I was opposed to the decision, but we — you can't just say, "well, they — gays can't get married now."
But this woman, there should be some accommodation for her conscience, just as there should be for people that are florists that don't want to participate in weddings, or bakers.
A great country like us should find a way to have accommodations for people so that we can solve the problem in the right way.
This should be solved at the local level…
And so we do agree, Mike.
Well, he's wrong on a lot of things, but on this he's wrong because I'm the most pro-life governor on this stage.
I got to act on my core beliefs.
It's part of who I am.
Life is a gift from God.
And from beginning end we need to respect it and err on the side of life.
And so I defunded Planned Parenthood.
We created a climate where parental notification took place.
We were the only state to fund crisis pregnancy centers with state moneys.
We were totally focused on this.
And I would bring that kind of philosophy to Washington, D.C. So here is a solution to this.
Title X of the HHS funding, there is something that was the "Reagan Rule." It was passed in 1988.
And in that rule it was defined, and the courts approved this, that a Planned Parenthood, you couldn't separate the money between the actual abortion procedures, and there are 330,000 abortions that take place in this clinic, and their promotion of it.
He interpreted it the right way, the courts ruled in his favor, and Planned Parenthood did not get funding during that time until President Clinton came in.
When I'm elected president, we will restore that interpretation of Title X.
And this deal will be finished.
There are 13,000 community-based organizations that provide health services to women, 13,000 in this country.
I don't believe that Planned Parenthood should get a penny from the federal government.
Those organizations should get funding, just as I increased funding when I was governor of the state.
That's the way you do this is you improve the condition for people.
And, Donald, when I was governor, we also increased the opportunities for women.
Women's income grew three times faster than the national average when I was governor.
We improved — we improved —
— we increased child support — we increased child support with a broken system by 90 percent.
I have a proven record.
I have a proven record.
He did, he did.
You're proud of your family, just as I am.
To subject my wife into the middle of a raucous political conversation was completely inappropriate, and I hope you apologize for that, Donald.
She is.
She's fantastiC. She is absolutely the love of my life, and she's right here…
And why don't you apologize to her right now.
Yeah.
So, here's the deal.
My wife is a Mexican-American.
She's an American by choice.
She loves this country as much as anybody in this room, and she wants a secure border.
But she wants to embrace the traditional American values that make us special and make us unique.
We're at a crossroads right now.
Are we going to take the Reagan approach, the hopeful optimistic approach, the approach that says that, you come to our country legally, you pursue your dreams with a vengeance, you create opportunities for all of us?
Or the Donald Trump approach? The approach that says that everything is bad, that everything is coming to an end.
I…
I'm on the Reagan side of this.
Well, I've been speaking English here tonight, and I'll keep speaking English.
But the simple fact is, if a high school kid asks me a question in Spanish, a school — by the way, a voucher program that was created under my watch, the largest voucher program in the country, where kids can go to a Christian school, and they ask me a question in Spanish, I'm going to show respect and answer that question in Spanish.
Even though they do speak English, and even though they embrace American values.
Yeah.
Well, first of all, Hugh, if you're looking at Republican advisers, you have to go to the last two administrations.
That happened to be 41 and 43.
So just by definition, if you're — and many of the people here that are seeking advice from the foreign policy experts in the Republican side, they — they served in my dad's administration, my brother's administration.
Of course that's the case.
But I'm my own man.
I'm going to create a strategy that is based on the simple fact that the United States needs to lead the world.
The first thing that we need to do is to stop the craziness of the sequester.
Rebuild our military so that our — so that we don't deploy people over and over again without the necessary equipment to keep them safe, to send a signal to the world that we're serious.
If we're going to lead the world, then we need to have the strongest military possible.
We need to rebuild our counterintelligence and intelligence capabilities.
We need to focus on the fact that the next president is going to start in 2017, not in 1990 — you know, 30 years ago, or when my brother started.
The world is dramatically different.
And I believe that we need to restore America's presence and leadership in the world.
Name a country where our relationship is better today than it was the — the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
Under Hillary Clinton, and Barack Obama, we have seen a weakness that now creates huge problems for the next president of the United States.
So I'll have a team that will be — that will be following the doctrine I set up, and it will be peace through strength.
We're sitting here in this library, which is a wonderful place to talk about this, because that's exactly what happened in the 1980s, and the world was a lot safer because of…
The leadership of Ronald Reagan and my…
So you — the — the first chance…
Right after me, and then I'll — I'll yield — yield the floor.
What do you guys say in the Senate when you're talking and debating?
Here's the facts: When Donald Trump talks about judgment, what was his position on who would've been the best negotiator to deal with Iran? It wasn't a Republican; it was Hillary Clinton.
That's what you believe.
I mean, the lack of judgment and the lack of understanding about how the world works is really dangerous in this kind of time that we're saying.
So is that the judgment that you bring to the table, that Hillary Clinton…
… is a great negotiator, that she could bring about a better deal on Iran?
You know what? As it relates to my brother, there's one thing I know for sure.
He kept us safe.
I don't know if you remember…
… Donald…
… you remember the — the rumble? You remember the fire fighter with his arms around it? He sent a clear signal that the United States would be strong and fight Islamic terrorism, and he did keep us safe.
That's — that's my brother.
… because of what President Obama's done by pulling back.
Well, I'm surprised Senator Cruz would say that since he was as strong supporter of John Roberts at the time.
I will talk about what I will do as it relates to appointing Supreme Court Justices.
We need to make sure that we have justices that, with a proven experienced record of respect for upholding the constitution.
That is what we need.
We can't have — the history in recent past is appoint people that have no experience so that you can't get attacked.
And, that makes it harder for people to have confidence that they won't veer off…
John Roberts has made some really good decisions, for sure, but he did not have a proven, extensive record that would have made the clarity the important thing, and that's what we need to do.
And, I'm willing to fight for those nominees to make sure that they get passed.
You can't do it the politically expedient way anymore.
This is the culture in Washington.
You have to fight hard for these appointments.
This is perhaps the most important thing that the next president will do.
Well, first of all, he, as I said, supported John Roberts.
He supported him, publicly.
So, you can rewrite history, I guess, Ted, but the simple fact is that you supported him because he had all the criteria that you would have thought would have made a great justice.
And, I think he is doing a good job.
But, the simple fact is that going forward, what we need to do is to have someone that has a long standing set of rulings that consistently makes it clear that he is a focused, exclusively on upholding the Constitution of the United States so they won't try to use the bench as a means to which legislate.
He was talking about me.
Well, I — I wanted to — be — make it easier for him.
And I just did.
So, 40 years ago, I smoked marijuana, and I admit it.
I'm sure that other people might have done it and may not want to say it in front of 25 million people.
My mom's not happy that I just did.
That's true.
And here's the deal.
Here's the deal.
We have — we have a serious epidemic of drugs that goes way beyond marijuana.
What goes on in Colorado, as far as I'm concerned, that should be a state decision.
But if you look at the problem of drugs in this — in this society today, it's a serious problem.
Rand, you know this because you're campaigning in New Hampshire like all of us, and you see the epidemic of heroin, the overdoses of heroin that's taking place.
People's families are — are being torn apart.
It is appropriate for the government to play a consistent role to be able to provide more treatment, more prevention — we're the state that has the most drug courts across every circuit in — in — in Florida, there are drug courts to give people a second chance.
That's the best way to do this.
No, you're wrong — you're wrong about this.
Here's the deal.
No, I did not oppose when the legislature passed the bill to deal with that very issue.
That's the way to solve this problem.
Medical marijuana on the ballot was opened up, there was a huge loophole, it was the first step to getting to a (inaudible) place.
And as a citizen of Florida, I voted no.
Not very far.
I think we need to do this state by state.
There are places that get this right, and we need to make sure that we protect the privacy laws.
This is a complicated place.
But I do think the natural impulse on the left — Hillary Clinton, immediately after one of these horrific violent acts took place, immediately said we need to have federal gun laws.
President Obama almost reflexively always says the same thing.
And the net result is, you're going to take away rights of — of law-abiding citizens, the 99.999 percent of the people that are law- abiding citizens.
That's not the right approach to do it.
In Florida, we have a background check.
We have concealed-weapon permit holders, and in fact, there's 1,200,000 of them.
We have a reduction in violent crime because we put people behind bars when they use a gun in the commission of the crime.
That's the better approach.
But we're living in a society today where despair kind of grows in isolation.
I — I think there needs to be a hearing, but the fact is, we need to encourage that kind of involvement.
That's — that's exactly what we need to do.
I would go with Ronald Reagan's partner, Margaret Thatcher.
Probably illegal, but what the heck?
Since it's not going to happen.
A strong leader is what we need in the White House, and she certainly was a strong leader that restored the United Kingdom into greatness.
Ever Ready, it's very high energy, Donald.
Six million more people are living in poverty than the day that Barack Obama got elected president.
Six million more people.
The middle class has had declining income, workforce participation rates are lower than they were in 1977.
For the first time in modern history, more businesses are failing than are being created.
That is what the next president will have to deal with.
And I believe we can reverse course by creating a strategy of high sustained economic growth, not the new normal of 2 percent that all the left says we just have to get used to, but a 4 percent growth strategy where we reform how we tax, fix the broken regulatory system, embrace the energy revolution in our midst, fix the immigration system so we can turn it into an economic driver, deal with the structural fiscal problems that exist because of our entitlement problems that will overwhelm and create way too much debt.
If we grow at 4 percent, people are going to be lifted out of poverty.
The great middle that defines our country will have a chance to be able to pursue their dreams as they see fit.
That should be the great challenge and the great opportunity for the next president of the United States, to forge consensus to go back to a high-growth strategy.
And then we'll be able to lead the world.
Without a high-growth strategy, our country will never have the resources or the optimism to be able to lead the world, which the world desperately needs our leadership.
Absolutely, I do, and I'm gonna run hard, run with heart, and run to win.
They keep — they called me Veto Corleone.
Because I vetoed 2,500 separate line-items in the budget.
I do.
I believe that the great majority of people coming here illegally have no other option.
They want to provide for their family.
But we need to control our border.
It's not — it's our responsibility to pick and choose who comes in.
So I — I've written a book about this and yet this week, I did come up with a comprehensive strategy that — that really mirrored what we said in the book, which is that we need to deal with E-Verify, we need to deal with people that come with a legal visa and overstay.
We need to be much more strategic on how we deal with border enforcement, border security.
We need to eliminate the sanctuary cities in this country.
It is ridiculous and tragic… — that people are dying because of the fact that — that local governments are not following the federal law.
There's much to do.
And I think rather than talking about this as a wedge issue, which Barack Obama has done now for six long years, the next president — and I hope to be that president — will fix this once and for all so that we can turn this into a driver for high sustained economic growth.
And there should be a path to earned legal status… — for those that are here.
Not — not amnesty, earned legal status, which means you pay a fine and do many things over an extended period of time.
…I remember…
…I remember, Megyn.
Knowing what we know now, with faulty intelligence, and not having security be the first priority when — when we invaded, it was a mistake.
I wouldn't have gone in, however, for the people that did lose their lives, and the families that suffer because of it — I know this full well because as governor of the state of Florida, I called every one of them.
Every one of them that I could find to tell them that I was praying for them, that I cared about them, and it was really hard to do.
And, every one of them said that their child did not die in vain, or their wife, of their husband did not die in vain.
So, why it was difficult for me to do it was based on that.
Here's the lesson that we should take from this, which relates to this whole subject, Barack Obama became president, and he abandoned Iraq.
He left, and when he left Al Qaida was done for.
ISIS was created because of the void that we left, and that void now exists as a caliphate the size of Indiana.
To honor the people that died, we need to — we need to — stop the — Iran agreement, for sure, because the Iranian mullahs have their blood on their hands, and we need to take out ISIS with every tool at our disposal.
No, I don't.
And I don't believe the federal government should be involved in the creation of standards directly or indirectly, the creation of curriculum or content.
It is clearly a state responsibility.
… measured in an intellectually honest way, with abundant school choice, ending social promotion.
And I know how to do this because as governor of the state of Florida I created the first statewide voucher program in the country, the second statewide voucher program, in the country and the third statewide voucher program in the country.
And we had rising student achievement across the board, because high standards, robust accountability, ending social promotion in third grade, real school choice across the board, challenging the teachers union and beating them is the way to go.
And Florida's low income kids had the greatest gains inside the country.
Our graduation rate improved by 50 percent.
That's what I'm for.
He is definitely my friend.
And I think the states ought to create these standards.
And if states want to opt out of Common Core, fine.
Just make sure your standards are high.
Because today in America, a third of our kids, after we spend more per student than any country in the world other than a couple rounding errors, to be honest with you, 30 percent are college- and/or career-ready.
If we are going to compete in this world we're in today, there is no possible way we can do it with lowering expectations and dumbing down everything.
Children are going to suffer and families' hearts are going to be broken that their kids won't be able to get a job in the 21st Century.
We've done it 27 times since World War II.
I think we need to lift our spirits and have high, lofty expectations for this great country of ours.
The new normal of two percent that the left is saying you can't do anything about is so dangerous for our country.
There's 6 million people living in poverty today, more than when Barack Obama got elected.
6.5 million people are working part-time, most of whom want to work full-time.
We've created rules and taxes on top of every aspiration of people, and the net result is we're not growing fast, income is not growing.
A four percent growth strategy means you fix a convoluted tax code.
You get in and you change every aspect of regulations that are job killers.
You get rid of Obamacare and replace it with something that doesn't suppress wages and kill jobs.
I joined the Bloomberg Foundation because of Mike Bloomberg's shared commitment for meaningful education reform.
That's why I was on it.
We never had a debate about the budget.
It was presented and we approved it.
Not item by item.
Here's my record: As governor of the state of Florida, I defunded Planned Parenthood.
I created a culture of life in our state.
We were the only state to appropriate money for crisis pregnancy centers.
We expand dramatically the number adoptions out of our foster care system.
We did parental notification laws.
We ended partial-birth abortion.
We did all of this and we were the first state to do a "choose life" license plate.
Now 29 states have done it, and tens of millions of dollars have gone to create a culture where more people, more babies are adopted.
No, I didn't know.
But it doesn't matter.
I was working on the board because of education.
My record is clear.
My record as a pro-life governor is not in dispute.
I am completely pro-life, and I believe that we should have a culture of life.
It's informed by my faith from beginning to end.
None of which is true.
No.
It's not true.
But I have said that Mr. Trump's language is divisive.
I want to win.
I want one of these people here or the ones at 5:00, to be the next president of the United States.
We're not going on win by doing what Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton do each and every day.
Dividing the country.
Saying, creating a grievance kind of environment.
We're going to win when we unite people with a hopeful, optimistic message.
I have that message because I was a governor of a state that saw people lifted up, because we had high sustained economic growth.
Our economy grew at double the rate of the nation.
We created 1.3 million jobs.
We led the nation seven out of those eight years.
We were only one of two states that went to AAA bond rating.
I cut taxes, $19 billion.
If you do that and apply conservative principles the right way, you create an environment where everybody rises up.
That's how we're going to win.
Campaigning in places to give people hope that their life is better because too many people are suffering today in America.
Here's what I believe.
I believe we're at the verge of the greatest time to be alive in this world.
But Washington is holding us back.
How we tax, how we regulate.
We're not embracing the energy revolution in our midst, a broken immigration system that has been politicized rather than turning it into an economic driver.
We're not protecting and preserving our entitlement system or reforming for the next generation.
All these things languish while we have politicians in Washington using these as wedge issues.
Here's my commitment to you, because I did it as Florida.
We can fix these things.
We can grow economically and restore America's leadership in the world, so that everybody has a chance to rise up.
I humbly ask for your vote, whenever you're gonna get to vote, whenever the primary is.
Thank you all very much.
Here's the lessons of history: When we — we pull back, voids are created.
We left Iraq.
We should've had a — a forces agreement to stay there with a small force, and instead of that, we politically and militarily pulled back, and now we have the creation of ISIS.
36 days ago in this very library, I gave a speech with a comprehensive strategy how to take out ISIS, and it requires American leadership and engagement.
We don't have to be the world's policemen.
But we certainly have to be the world's leader.
We need to have — make sure that the world knows that we're serious, that we're engaged, that we're not going to pull back, that — that our — that our word matters.
And if we do that, we can create a force that will take out ISIS both in Iraq and in Syria, which will take a lot longer time now…
Look, first of all, I wrote a book about this, three — four years ago, now.
And I laid out a comprehensive, conservative approach for immigration reform.
And it does require securing the border.
No one disagrees with that.
But to build a wall, and to deport people — half a million a month — would cost hundreds of billions of dollars, Donald.
Hundreds of billions of dollars.
It would destroy community life, it would tear families apart.
And it would send a signal to the rest of the world that the United States values that are so important for our long-term success no longer matter in this country.
