I'm too agreeable, easy going.
Becky, if you want a 10 percent flat tax where the numbers add up, I rolled out my tax plan today, you can find it on line at tedcruz.org.
It is a simple flat tax where for individuals, a family of four pays nothing on the first $36,000.
After that you pay 10 percent as a flat tax going up.
The billionaire and the working man, no hedge fund manager pays less than his secretary.
On top of that, there is a business flat tax of 16 percent.
Now that applies universally to giant corporations that with lobbyists right now are not paying taxes, and as small business.
And you wanted to know the numbers, the Tax Foundation, which has scored every one of our plans, shows that this plan will allow the economy to generate 4.9 million jobs, to raise wages over 12 percent, and to generate 14 percent growth.
And it costs, with dynamic scoring, less than a trillion dollars.
Those are the hard numbers.
And every single income decile sees a double-digit increase in after-tax income.
Growth is the answer.
And as Reagan demonstrated, if we cut taxes, we can bring back growth.
You know, let me say something at the outset.
The questions that have been asked so far in this debate illustrate why the American people don't trust the media.
And Carl — Carl, I'm not finished yet.
The contrast with the Democratic debate, where every fawning question from the media was, "Which of you is more handsome and why?"
Let me be clear.
The men and women on this stage have more ideas, more experience, more common sense than every participant in the Democratic debate.
That debate reflected a debate between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks.
You want me to answer that question? I'm happy to answer the question…
Let me tell you how that question…
Let me tell you how that question…
… so you don't actually want to hear the answer, John?
You don't want to hear the answer.
You just want to…
You're not interested in an answer.
…Then I'll buy you a tequila…
…Or, even some famous Colorado brownies.
Well, sure.
This deal in Washington is an example of why Washington's broken.
Republican leadership joined with every single Democrat, add $80 trillion to our debt to do nothing to fix the problems.
And, let me now on Social Security because we were getting into a good substantive exchange, and I want to say I think both Chris, and Mike are right.
Governor Huckabee's exactly right, we need to honor the promises made to our seniors, but for younger workers — look.
I'm 44 years old.
It is hard to find someone in my generation that thinks Social Security will be there for us.
We can save and preserve and strengthen Social Security by making no changes for seniors, but for younger workers gradually increasing the retirement age, changing the rate of growth so that it matches inflation, and critically allowing younger workers to keep a portion of our tax payments in a personal account that we own, we control them, we can pass on to our kids.
Well, we've gotta turn the economy around for people who are struggling.
The Democrats' answer to everything is more government control over wages, and more empowering trial lawyers to file lawsuits.
You know, you look at women working.
I'll tell you, in my family there are a lot of single moms in my family.
My sister was a single mom, both of my aunts who were a single moms.
My mom who's here today, was a single mom when my father left us when I was 3 years old.
Now, thank God, my father was invited to a Bible study and became born again and he came back to my mom and me and we were raised together.
But I — the struggle of single moms is extraordinary.
And you know, when you see Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders and all the Democrats talking about wanting to address the plight of working women, not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama, 3.7 million women have entered poverty.
Not a one of them mentioned the fact that under Barack Obama and the big government economy, the median wage for women has dropped $733.
The the truth of the matter is, big government benefits the wealthy, it benefits the lobbyists, it benefits the giant corporations.
And the people who are getting hammered are small businesses, it's single moms, it's Hispanics.
That is who I'm fighting for.
The people that Washington leaves behind.
Well, Rick, it's a very important question.
I have got deep concerns about the Fed.
The first thing I think we need to do is audit the Fed.
And I am an original co-sponsor of Rand Paul's audit the Fed legislation.
The second thing we need to do is I think we need to bring together a bipartisan commission to look at getting back to rules- based monetary policy, end this star chamber that has been engaging in this incredible experiment of quantitative easing, QE1, QE2, QE3, QE- infinity.
And the people who are being impacted, you know, a question that was asked earlier, Becky asked, was about working women.
You know, it's interesting, you look at on Wall Street, the Fed is doing great.
It's driving up stock prices.
Wall Street is doing great.
You know, today, the top 1 percent earn a higher share of our income than any year since 1928.
But if you look at working men and women.
If you look at a single mom buying groceries, she sees hamburger prices have gone up nearly 40 percent.
She sees her cost of electricity going up.
She sees her health insurance going up.
And loose money is one of the major problems.
We need sound money.
And I think the Fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound money and monetary stability, ideally tied to gold.
Well, Rick, it's a very important question.
I have got deep concerns about the Fed.
The first thing I think we need to do is audit the Fed.
And I am an original co-sponsor of Rand Paul's audit the Fed legislation.
The second thing we need to do is I think we need to bring together a bipartisan commission to look at getting back to rules- based monetary policy, end this star chamber that has been engaging in this incredible experiment of quantitative easing, QE1, QE2, QE3, QE- infinity.
And the people who are being impacted, you know, a question that was asked earlier, Becky asked, was about working women.
You know, it's interesting, you look at on Wall Street, the Fed is doing great.
It's driving up stock prices.
Wall Street is doing great.
You know, today, the top 1 percent earn a higher share of our income than any year since 1928.
But if you look at working men and women.
If you look at a single mom buying groceries, she sees hamburger prices have gone up nearly 40 percent.
She sees her cost of electricity going up.
She sees her health insurance going up.
And loose money is one of the major problems.
We need sound money.
And I think the Fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound money and monetary stability, ideally tied to gold.
Let me say on that…
…Rand is exactly right.
His plan is a good plan, and I will note that my 10% plan also eliminates the payroll tax, eliminates the death tax,
…eliminates the business…
…income tax…
…10% flat rate…
…is the lowest personal rate any candidate up here has, and what it would also enable us to do is for every citizen to fill out their taxes on a postcard so we can eliminate the IRS.
You know, everyone here talks about the need to take on Washington.
The natural next question is who actually has done so.
Who actually has stood up not just to Democrats, but to leaders in our own party? When millions of Americans rose up against Obamacare, I was proud to lead that fight.
When millions of Americans rose up against amnesty, I was proud to lead that fight.
When millions of Americans rose up against Planned Parenthood, I was proud to lead that fight.
If people are promising they're going to take on Washington and cronyism, you need to look to who has been doing it.
In my family, my dad fled oppression in Cuba to come to America.
Freedom is personal for me, and I will always keep my word and fight for freedom.
I'm Ted Cruz.
I am the son of an Irish-Italian mom and a Cuban immigrant dad who fled oppression and came to America seeking freedom.
I'm a husband to my best friend, Heidi, who's here tonight.
I'm a dad to two little girls who are the loves of my life, Caroline and Catherine.
If you're fed up with Washington, if you're looking for someone to stand up to career politicians in both parties, I'm the only one on this stage who has done that over and over again, and if we stand together, we can bring America back.
Well, let me tell you, Jake, the single biggest national security threat facing America right now is the threat of a nuclear Iran.
We've seen six and a half years of President Obama leading from behind.
Weakness is provocative, and this Iranian nuclear deal is nothing short of catastrophic.
This deal, on its face, will send over $100 billion to the Ayatollah Khamenei, making the Obama administration the world's leading financier of radical Islamic terrorism.
This deal abandons four American hostages in Iran, and this deal will only accelerate Iran's acquiring nuclear weapons.
You'd better believe it.
If I am elected president, on the very first day in office, I will rip to shreds this catastrophic Iranian nuclear deal.
Well, let's be clear when it comes to experience.
What President Obama wants to do is he's run to the United Nations, and he wants to use the United Nations to bind the United States, and take away our sovereignty.
Well, I spent five and a half years as a Solicitor General of Texas, the lead lawyer for the state, in front of the U.S.
Supreme Court, and I went in front of the Supreme Court, and took on the world court of the United Nations in a case called Medellin v.
Texas, and we won a historic victory saying the World Court, and the U.N., has no power to bind the United States, and no President of the United States, Republican or Democrat, has the authority to give away our sovereignty.
And, so, if there's anyone up here who would be bound by this catastrophic deal with Iran, they're giving up the core responsibility of commander in chief, and as president, I would never do that.
…Jake…
Jake, Jake…
Jake, there is no more important topic in 2016 than this topic right here, and I've listened to several folks saying, "Well, gosh, if they cheat, we'll act."
We won't know under this agreement — there are several facilities in Iran they designate as military facilities that are off limit all together.
Beyond that, the other facilities, we give them 24 days notice before inspecting them.
That is designed to allow them to hide the evidence.
And most astonishingly, this agreement trusts the Iranians to inspect themselves.
That makes no sense whatsoever.
And let me know — President Obama is violating federal law…
… by not handing over the side deals, and we ought to see the United States Congress…
… stand up together and say, "Hand over this treaty, and protect this country."
Well, let me tell you, Dana, number one, I'm proud to stand for life.
These Planned Parenthood videos are horrifying.
I would encourage every American to watch the videos.
See — seeing your Planned Parenthood officials callously, heartlessly bartering and selling the body parts of human beings, and then ask yourself, "are these my values?"
These are horrifying.
On these videos, Planned Parenthood also essentially confesses to multiple felonies.
It is a felony with ten years' jail term to sell the body parts of unborn children for profit.
That's what these videos show Planned Parenthood doing.
Absolutely we shouldn't be sending $500 million of taxpayer money to funding an ongoing criminal enterprise, and I'll tell you, the fact that Republican leadership in both houses has begun this discussion by preemptively surrendering to Barack Obama and saying, "we'll give in because Obama threatens a veto."
You know, Obama's committed to his principles.
His liberal principles, he will fight for them.
He says…
I will veto any budget that doesn't fund Planned Parenthood, and Republicans surrender.
We need to stop surrendering and start standing…
…for our principles.
Well, Jake, you know, I'm — I'm very glad that Donald Trump's being in this race has forced the mainstream media finally to talk about illegal immigration.
I think that's very important.
I like and respect Ben Carson.
I'll let him talk about his own plans.
But I will say this: The natural next question that primary voters are asking, after we focus on illegal immigration is, okay, what are the records of the various candidates? And this is an issue on which there are stark differences.
A majority of the men and women on this stage have previously and publicly embraced amnesty.
I am the only candidate on this stage who has never supported amnesty and, in fact, who helped lead the fight to stop a massive amnesty plan.
In 2013, when Barack Obama and Harry Reid joined the Washington Republicans in a massive, I stood shoulder to shoulder with Jeff Sessions helping lead the fight.
You know, folks here have talked about, how do you secure the borders? Well, I've been leading the fight in the Senate to triple the Border Patrol, to put in place fencings and walls, to put in place a strong biometric exit/entry system…
Well, Dana, I've known John Roberts for 20 years, he's amazingly talented lawyer, but, yes, it was a mistake when he was appointed to the Supreme Court.
He's a good enough lawyer that he knows in these Obamacare cases he changed the statute, he changed the law in order to force that failed law on millions of Americans for a political outcome.
And, you know, we're frustrated as conservatives.
We keep winning elections, and then we don't get the outcome we want.
And, let me focus on two moments in time.
Number one, in 1990, in one room was David Souter, and in another room was Edith Jones, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the fifth circuit court of appeals.
George Herbert Walker Bush appointed David Souter.
And then in 2005, in one room was John Roberts, in another room was my former boss, Mike Luttig, the rock ribbed (ph) conservative on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals…
…George W. Bush appointed John Roberts, and let me give you the consequences of that.
If, instead, the President Bush had appointed Edith Jones, and Mike Luttig, which is who I would have appointed, Obamacare would have been struck down three years ago, and the marriage laws of all 50 states would be on the books.
These matter, and I fought to defend the constitution my whole life…
…and I will as president as well.
It is true that after George W. Bush nominated John Roberts, I supported his confirmation.
That was a mistake and I regret that.
I wouldn't have nominated John Roberts, and indeed, Governor Bush pointed out why.
It wasn't that the President Bushes wanted to appoint a liberal to the court, it's that it was the easier choice.
Both David Souter and John Roberts, they didn't have a long paper trail.
If you had nominated Edith Jones or Mike Ludig (ph) you would have had a bloody fight and they weren't willing to spend political capital to put a strong judicial conservative on the court.
I have spent my entire life, starting from clerking for Chief Justice William Rehnquist on the United States Supreme Court, one of the most principled jurists.
We have an out-of-control Court, and I give you my word, if I'm elected president, every single Supreme Court justice will faithfully follow the law and will not act like philosopher kings — imposing their liberal policies on millions of Americans — who need to be trusted to govern ourselves.
I — I am not, and — and you mentioned that the U.S.
Supreme Court had rightly upheld the individual right to keep and bear arms.
I was proud to lead 31 states before the U.S.
Supreme Court defending the Second Amendment, and we won that landmark victory.
And indeed, just a couple of years ago, when Harry Reid and Barack Obama came after the right to keep and bear arms of millions of Americans, I was proud to lead the fight in the United States Senate to protect our right to keep and bear arms, and for that reason…
… I was honored to be endorsed by Gun Owners of America…
… as the strongest supporter of the Second Amendment on this stage today, and I will…
… fight every day to defend the Bill of Rights.
Well, I wouldn't change the $10 bill, I'd change the $20.
I'd take Jackson off and I'd leave Alexander Hamilton right where he is as one of our Founding Fathers.
You know, as a Cuban, I might go with Cohiba (ph), and I'll tell you, I'd go with, for Heidi, Angel, because she is my angel.
Ronald Reagan believed in America.
If I'm elected president our friends and allies across the globe will know that we stand with them.
the bust of Winston Churchill will be back in the Oval Office, and the American embassy in Israel will be in Jerusalem.
Enemies across this world will know the United States is not to be trifled with.
ISIS will be defeated.
We will have a president willing to utter the words, "radical Islamic terrorism," and the Ayatollah Khamenei will understand that he will never, ever, ever acquire nuclear weapons.
Here at home, we'll reignite the promise of America.
Young people coming out of school, with student loans up to their eyeballs, will find instead of no jobs, two, three, four, five job opportunities.
How will that happen? Through tax reform.
We'll pass a simple flat tax and abolish the IRS.
And through regulatory reform, we will repeal every word of Obamacare.
You want to know what I'll do as president? It is real simple.
We'll kill the terrorists, we'll repeal Obamacare, and we will defend the Constitution, every single word of it.
Chris, I believe the American people are looking for someone to speak the truth.
Chris, absolutely yes.
And not only will I support it–
— I have authored Kate's law in the United States Senate and filed that legislation.
I tried to get the Senate to vote to pass Kate's law on the floor of the Senate just one week ago, and the leader of our own party blocked a vote on Kate's law.
You know, there was reference made to our leaders being stupid.
It's not a question of stupidity.
It's that they don't want to enforce the immigration laws.
That there are far too many in the Washington cartel that support amnesty.
President Obama has talked about fundamentally transforming this country.
There's 7 billion people across the face of the globe, many of whom want to come to this country.
If they come legally, great.
But if they come illegally and they get amnesty, that is how we fundamentally change this country, and it really is striking.
A majority of the candidates on this stage have supported amnesty.
I have never supported amnesty, and I led the fight against Chuck Schumer's gang of eight amnesty legislation in the Senate.
Megyn, we need a commander in chief that speaks the truth.
We will not defeat radical Islamic terrorism so long as we have a president unwilling to utter the words, "radical Islamic terrorism".
Megyn, of course it's an ideological problem, that's one of the reasons I introduce the Expatriate Terrorist Act in the Senate that said if any American travels to the Middle East and joining ISIS, that he or she forfeits their citizenship so they don't use a passport to come back and wage jihad on Americans.
Yes, it is ideological, and let me contrast President Obama, who at the prayer breakfast, essentially acted as an apologist.
He said, "Well, gosh, the crusades, the inquisitions–"
We need a president that shows the courage that Egypt's President al-Sisi, a Muslim, when he called out the radical Islamic terrorists who are threatening the world.
Well, Bret, of course they have, and over the last six and a half years we've seen the consequences of the Obama-Clinton foreign policy.
Leading from behind is a disaster.
We have abandoned and alienated our friends and allies, and our enemies are stronger.
Radical Islam is on the rise, Iran's on the verge of acquiring a nuclear weapon, China is waging cyber warfare against America, Russia — General Soleimani, you just mentioned, the Iranian general is the head of the al Quds forces.
He's directly responsible for the murder of over 500 American servicemen in Iraq, and part of this Iranian deal was lifting the international sanctions on General Soleimani.
The day General Soleimani flew back from Moscow to Iran was the day we believed that Russia used cyber warfare against the joint chiefs.
We need a new commander in chief that will stand up to our enemies, and that will have credibility…
It is worth emphasizing that Iran released our hostages in 1981 the day Ronald Reagan was sworn into office.
Brett, can I — Brett, can I jump in on this one?
Well, I am blessed to receive a word from God every day in receiving the scriptures and reading the scriptures.
And God speaks through the Bible.
I'm the son of a pastor and evangelist and I've described many times how my father, when I was a child, was an alcoholic.
He was not a Christian.
And my father left my mother and left me when I was just three years old.
And someone invited him to Clay Road Baptist Church.
And he gave his heart to Jesus and it turned him around.
And he got on a plane and he flew back to my mother and me.
I would also note that the scripture tells us, "you shall know them by their fruit." We see lots of "campaign conservatives." But if we're going to win in 2016, we need a consistent conservative, someone who has been a fiscal conservative, a social conservative, a national security conservative.
There are real differences among the candidates on issues like amnesty, like Obamacare, like religious liberty, like life and marriage.
And I have been proud to fight and stand for religious liberty, to stand against Planned Parenthood, to defend life for my entire career.
And I will be proud to continue to do so as president of the United States.
If I'm elected president, let me tell you about my first day in office.
The first thing I intend to do is to rescind every illegal and unconstitutional executive action taken by Barack Obama.
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice to open an investigation into these videos and to prosecute Planned Parenthood for any criminal violations.
The next thing I intend to do is instruct the Department of Justice and the IRS to start (sic) persecuting religious liberty, and then intend to cancel the Iran deal, and finally move the U.S.
embassy in Israel to Jerusalem.
(APPLAUSE)
I will keep my word.
My father fled Cuba, and I will fight to defend liberty because my family knows what it's like to lose it.