Well, gee, after the last debate, I was told that I didn't smile enough.
(LAUGHTER)
But I also think that these are very serious times; 75 percent of the American people think the federal government is corrupt.
I agree with them.
And this big powerful, corrupt bureaucracy works now only for the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected.
Meantime, wages have stagnated for 40 years.
We have more Americans out of work or just Americans who quit looking for work for 40 years.
Ours was intended to be a citizen government.
This is about more than replacing a D with an R.
We need a leader who will help us take our government back.
Let me just say on taxes, how long have we been talking about tax reform in Washington, D.C.? We have been talking about it for decades.
We now have a 73,000-page tax code.
There have been more than 4,000 changes to the tax plan since 2001 alone.
There are loads of great ideas, great conservative ideas from wonderful think tanks about how to reform the tax code.
The problem is we never get it done.
We have talked about tax reform in every single election for decades.
It never happens.
And the politicians always say it is so complicated, nobody but a politician can figure it out.
The truth is this, the big problem, we need a leader in Washington who understands how to get something done, not to talk about it, not to propose it, to get it done.
That's right, three pages.
You know why three?
No.
You know why three? Because only if it's about three pages are you leveling the playing field between the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected who can hire the armies of lawyers and accountants and, yes, lobbyists to help them navigate their way through 73,000 pages.
Three pages is about the maximum that a single business owner or a farmer or just a couple can understand without hiring somebody.
Almost 60 percent of American people now need to hire an expert to understand their taxes.
So yes, you're going to hear a lot of talk about tax reform —
— the issue is who is going to get it done.
You know, the NASDAQ dropped 80 percent — 80 percent — and it took 15 years for the NASDAQ to recover.
I was recruited to H.P.
to save a company.
It was a company that had grown into a bloated, inept bureaucracy that cost too much and delivered too little to customers and shareholders.
It had missed, before I had arrived, expectations for nine quarters in a row.
As an outsider, I tackled H.P.'s entrenched problems head-on.
I cut the bureaucracy down to size, re-introduced accountability, focused on service, on innovation, on leading in every market, in every product segment.
And yes, it was a very difficult time.
However, we saved 80,000 jobs and we went on to grow to 160,000 jobs, and scores of technology companies literally went out of business — like Gateway — taking all their jobs with them.
The truth is I had to make some tough calls in some tough times.
I think, actually, people are looking for that in Washington now.
And yes, I was fired over a disagreement in the boardroom.
There are politics in the boardroom as well.
And yet the man who led my firing, Tom Perkins, an icon of Silicon Valley, has come out publicly and said, "you know what? We were wrong.
She was right.
She was a great CEO.
She'd be a great president of the United States because the leadership she brought to H.P.
is exactly the leadership we need in Washington, D.C.
Well, this is one of the reasons why Tom Perkins and I had disagreements in the boardroom, Becky.
…and be held accountable.
You know, I want to go back for a moment to what we were just talking about.
Crony capitalism is alive and well, and has been so in Washington, D.C.
for decades.
What's crony capitalism? Crony capitalism is what happens when government gets so big and so powerful that only the big and the powerful can handle it.
So why are the pharmaceutical companies consolidating? Why are there five even bigger Wall Street banks now, instead of the ten we used to have on Wall Street? Because when government gets big and powerful, the big feel like they need to get even bigger to deal with all that power, and meanwhile, the small and the powerless — in this case, 1,590 community banks — go out of business.
You see, folks, this is how socialism starts.
Government causes a problem, and then government steps in to solve the problem.
This is why, fundamentally, we have to take our government back.
The student loan problem has been created by government.
Government trying to level the playing field between Internet and brick-and-mortar creates a problem.
The FCC jumping in now and saying, "we're going to put 400 pages of regulation over the Internet," is going to create massive problems.
But guess who pushed for that regulation? The big Internet companies.
This is what's going on.
Big and powerful use big and powerful government to their advantage.
It's why you see Walgreens buying Rite Aid.
It's why you see the pharmaceuticals getting together.
It's you see the health insurance companies getting together.
It's why you see the banks consolidating.
And meanwhile, small businesses are getting crushed.
Community- based businesses and farms are getting crushed.
Community banks are going out of business.
Big government favors the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected, and crushes the small and the powerless.
It is why we have to simplify.
It is why we have to reduce the size and power of government.
It's the only way to level the playing field between big and powerful and small and powerless.
Becky, it is the height of hypocrisy for Mrs.
Clinton to talk about being the first woman President, when every single policy she espouses, and every single policy of President Obama has been demonstrably bad for women.
92 percent — 92 percent of the jobs lost during Barack Obama's first term belonged to women.
Senator Cruz is precisely right.
Three million women have fallen into poverty under this administration.
The number of women — living in extreme poverty is the highest level on record.
I am a conservative because I know our values, our principles and our policies — work better to lift everyone up, men and women.
No, the Federal Government should not play a larger role.
Look, every time the Federal Government gets engaged in something it gets worse.
And then the Government steps in to try and solve the problem and we get a little further down to that progressive vision that Hillary Clinton is talking about.
Companies should, if they want to attract the best workers, provide a good set of benefits.
But honestly, if you're a small business owner today you are being crushed.
We have 400,000 small businesses forming every year in this country.
How great is that? They are employing themselves, they are potentially employing others.
The bad news is, we have 470,000 going out of business every year.
And why? They cite Obamacare.
They are refusing to…
I think it's a wonderful that that businesses start a 401(k).
The point I'm making is this, the Federal Government should not be in a lot of things.
There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government in setting up — retirement plans.
There is no Constitutional role for the Federal Government to be setting minimum wages…
… The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, the slower the economy becomes.
The more the Government gets engaged in the economy, it is demonstrably true…
… The more the big, the powerful, the wealthy and the well-connected are advantaged.
John, I — if I — a lot of people have jumped in here.
I'd like to jump in.
A lot of people have jumped in here.
I understand.
I would just say that…
You know, every election we hear a lot of talk.
We hear a lot of good plans.
We hear actually a lot of good intentions.
But somehow for decades, nothing really has changed.
What we need now is a proven leader who has produced results.
That's how you go from secretary to CEO.
You lead and you produce results.
I will cut this government down to size and hold it accountable, simplify the tax code, roll back the regulations that have been spewing out of Washington, D.C.
for 50 years.
I may not be your dream candidate just yet, but I can assure you I am Hillary Clinton's worst nightmare.
And in your heart of hearts, you cannot wait to see a debate between Hillary Clinton and Carly Fiorina.
I will tell you this, I will beat Hillary Clinton.
And with your vote and your support and your prayers, I will lead with the citizens of this great nation the resurgence of this great nation.
Good evening.
My story, from secretary to CEO, is only possible in this nation, and proves that everyone of us has potential.
My husband, Frank, of 30 years, started out driving a tow truck for a family owned auto body shop.
We have come to a pivotal point in our nation's history where this nation's possibilities and potential are being crushed by a government grown so big, so powerful, so inept, so corrupt, and a political class that refuses to do anything about it.
I am prepared to lead the resurgence of this great nation.
You know, I think Mr. Trump is a wonderful entertainer.
He's been terrific at that business.
I also think that one of the benefits of a presidential campaign is the character and capability, judgment and temperament of every single one of us is revealed over time and under pressure.
All of us will be revealed over time and under pressure.
I look forward to a long race.
That's not for me to answer; it is for the voters of this country to answer, and I have a lot of faith in the common sense and good judgment of the voters of the United States of America.
Jake, I'll tell you — I'll tell you why people are supporting outsiders.
It's because you know what happens if someone's been in the system their whole life, they don't know how broken the system is.
A fish swims in water, it doesn't know it's water.
It's not that politicians are bad people, it's that they've been in that system forever.
The truth is 75 percent of the American people think the government is corrupt; 82 percent of the American people think these problems that have festered for 50 years in some cases, 25 years in other cases.
The border's been insecure for 25 years; 307,000 veterans have died waiting for health care.
These things have gone on for so long because no one will challenge the status quo.
You know what a leader does? They challenge the status quo, they solve problems that have festered for a long time and they produce results.
That is what my whole life has been about.
People know this is about far more than replacing a D with an R — this is about changing the system.
Having…
Having met Vladimir Putin, if I may…
Having met Vladimir Putin, I wouldn't talk to him at all.
We've talked way too much to him.
What I would do, immediately, is begin rebuilding the Sixth Fleet, I would begin rebuilding the missile defense program in Poland, I would conduct regular, aggressive military exercises in the Baltic states.
I'd probably send a few thousand more troops into Germany.
Vladimir Putin would get the message.
By the way, the reason it is so critically important that every one of us know General Suleimani's name is because Russia is in Syria right now, because the head of the Quds force traveled to Russia and talked Vladimir Putin into aligning themselves with Iran and Syria to prop up Bashar al- Assad.
Russia is a bad actor, but Vladimir Putin is someone we should not talk to, because the only way he will stop is to sense strength and resolve on the other side, and we have all of that within our control.
We could rebuild the Sixth Fleet.
I will.
We haven't.
We could rebuild the missile defense program.
We haven't.
I will.
We could also, to Senator Rubio's point, give the Egyptians what they've asked for, which is intelligence.
We could give the Jordanians what they've asked for…
…bombs and materiel.
We have not supplied it…
…I will.
We could arm the Kurds.
They've been asking us for three years.
All of this is within our control.
…Jake…
…Jake, (INAUDIBLE)…
And then it'll be my turn.
Jake?
Jake?
Dana, I'd like to…
Dana, I would like to link these two issues, both of which are incredibly important, Iran and Planned Parenthood.
One has something to do with the defense of the security of this nation.
The other has something to do with the defense of the character of this nation.
You have not heard a plan about Iran from any politician up here, here is my plan.
On day one in the Oval Office, I will make two phone calls, the first to my good friend to Bibi Netanyahu to reassure him we will stand with the state of Israel.
The second, to the supreme leader, to tell him that unless and until he opens every military and every nuclear facility to real anytime, anywhere inspections by our people, not his, we, the United States of America, will make it as difficult as possible and move money around the global financial system.
We can do that, we don't need anyone's cooperation to do it.
And every ally and every adversary we have in this world will know that the United States in America is back in the leadership business, which is how we must stand with our allies.
As regards Planned Parenthood, anyone who has watched this videotape, I dare Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama to watch these tapes.
Watch a fully formed fetus on the table, it's heart beating, it's legs kicking while someone says we have to keep it alive to harvest its brain.
This is about the character of our nation, and if we will not stand up in and force President Obama to veto this bill, shame on us.
You know, it's interesting to me, Mr.
Trump said that he heard Mr.
Bush very clearly and what Mr.
Bush said.
I think women all over this country heard very clearly what Mr.
Trump said.
Dana, with all being said to Mr.
Trump…
Immigration did not come up in 2016 because Mr.
Trump brought it up.
We talked about it in 2012, we talked about it in 2008.
We talked about it in 2004.
We have been talking about it for 25 years.
This is why people are tired of politicians.
First let me say, We have just spent a good bit of time discussing, as Republicans, how to solve this problem.
I would ask your audience at home to ask a very basic question.
Why have Democrats not solved this problem?
President Obama campaigned in 2007 and 2008 on solving the immigration problem.
He entered Washington with majorities in the House and the Senate.
He could have chosen to do anything to solve this pro — this problem.
Instead, he chose to do nothing.
Why? because the Democrats don't want this issue solved.
They want it to be an issue that they can use.
As to birthright citizenship…
…the truth is, you can't just wave your hands and say "the 14th Amendment is gonna go away." It will take an extremely arduous vote in Congress, followed by two-thirds of the states, and if that doesn't work to amend the Constitution, then it is a long, arduous process in court.
And meanwhile, what will continue to go on is what has gone on for 25 years.
With all due respect, Mr.
Trump, we've been talking about illegal immigration for 25 years.
San Francisco has been a sanctuary city since 1989.
There are 300 of them.
And meanwhile, what has happened? Nothing.
The border remains insecure.
The legal immigration system remains broken.
Look, we know what it takes to secure a border.
We've heard a lot of great ideas here.
Money, manpower, technology…
…mostly, apparently, leadership…
…the kind of leadership that understands how to get results.
But you — you would stipulate, Mr.
Trump, but not everyone agrees with you.
OK.
I led Hewlett Packard through a very difficult time, the worst technology recession in 25 years.
The NASDAQ stock index fell 80 percent.
It took 15 years for the stock index to recover.
We had very strong competitors who literally went out of business and lost all of their jobs in the process.
Despite those difficult times, we doubled the size of the company, we quadrupled its topline growth rate, we quadrupled its cash flow, we tripled its rate of innovation.
Yes, we had to make tough choices, and in doing so, we saved 80,000 jobs, went on to grow to 160,000 jobs.
And now Hewlett Packard is almost 300,000 jobs.
We went from lagging behind to leading in every product category and every market segment.
We must lead in this nation again, and some tough calls are going to be required.
But as for the firing, I have been very honest about this from the day it happened.
When you challenge the status quo, you make enemies.
I made a few.
Steve Jobs told me that when he called me the day I was fired to say, hey, been there, done that twice.
It's also true that the man that led my firing, Tom Perkins, just took —
— out a full-page ad in the New York Times to say he was wrong, I was right.
I was a terrific CEO, the board was dysfunctional.
And he thinks I will make a magnificent president of the United States.
You know, Jeffrey Sonnenfeld is a well-known Clintonite and honestly had it out for me from the moment that I arrived at Hewlett Packard.
But honestly, Mr.
Trump, I find it quite rich that you would talk about this.
You know, there are a lot of us Americans who believe that we are going to have trouble someday paying back the interest on our debt because politicians have run up mountains of debt using other people's money.
That is in fact precisely the way you ran your casinos.
You ran up mountains of debt, as well as losses, using other people's money, and you were forced to file for bankruptcy not once —
— not twice, four times, a record four times.
Why should we trust you to manage the finances — of this nation any differently than you managed the finances — of your casinos?
Well —
Well, Mr. Trump —
A track record of leadership is not a game.
It is the issue in this election.
Well, I thought we had been hearing quite a bit about Govenor Christie's record as governor, actually.
I think track records are very important.
I completely agree that what's at stake here is the future of this nation, and the future of every American.
But I do think that a track record of leadership is vital because in the end this election is about leadership.
And let's talk about what leadership is.
It's not about braggadocio, it is about challenging the status quo, solving problems, producing results.
And the highest calling of leadership is to unlock potential in others.
Problems have festered in Washington for too long.
And the potential of this nation is being crushed.
You see, Governor Christie, people spend time talking about their track records, and Mr.
Trump and I have every right to do the same.
And Mrs. Clinton has to defend her track record.
Her track record of lying about Benghazi, of lying about her e- mails, about lying about her servers.
She does not have a track record of accomplishment.
Like Mrs. Clinton, I, too, have travels hundreds of thousands of miles around the globe.
But unlike Mrs. Clinton, I know flying is an activity, not an accomplishment.
Mrs. Clinton — if you want to stump a Democrat, ask them to name a accomplishment of Mrs. Clinton's.
We just spent — we just spent the last 10 minutes…
…Jake, since everyone has gotten to weigh in on this military issue, I'd like to be able to do the same.
We have spent probably 12 minutes talking about the past.
Let's talk about the future.
We need the strongest military on the face of the planet, and everyone has to know it.
And, specifically, what that means is we need about 50 Army brigades, we need about 36 Marine battalions, we need somewhere between 300, and 350 naval ships, we need to upgrade every leg of the nuclear triad…
…we need to reform the Department of Defense, we need as well…
…to invest in our military technology, and we need to care for our veterans so 307,000…
…aren't dying waiting for health care.
Jake, may I just say…
Jake — Jake…
I very much hope I am the only person on this stage who can say this, but I know there are millions of Americans out there who will say the same thing.
My husband Frank and I buried a child to drug addiction.
So, we must invest more in the treatment of drugs.
I agree with Senator Paul.
I agree with states' rights.
But we are misleading young people when we tell them that marijuana is just like having a beer.
It's not.
And the marijuana that kids are smoking today is not the same as the marijuana that Jeb Bush smoked 40 years ago.
I wouldn't change the $10 bill, or the $20 bill.
I think, honestly, it's a gesture.
I don't think it helps to change our history.
What I would think is that we ought to recognize that women are not a special interest group.
Women are the majority of this nation.
We are half the potential of this nation, and this nation will be better off when every woman has the opportunity to live the life she chooses.
I think what this nation can be and must be is symbolized by Lady Liberty and Lady Justice.
Lady Liberty stands tall and strong.
She is clear-eyed and resolute.
She doesn't shield her eyes from the realities of the world, but she faces outward into the world nevertheless, as we always must.
And she holds her torch high, because she knows she is a beacon of hope in a very troubled world.
And Lady Justice, Lady Justice holds a sword by her side, because she is a fighter, a warrior for the values and the principles that have made this nation great.
She holds a scale in her other hand.
And with that scale she says all of us are equal in the eyes of God.
And so all of us must be equal in the eyes of the law and the government, powerful and powerless alike.
And she wears a blindfold.
And with that blindfold she is saying to us that it must be true, it can be true that in this country, in this century, it doesn't matter who you are, it doesn't matter what you look like, it doesn't matter how you start, it doesn't matter your circumstances, here in this nation, every American's life must be filled with the possibilities that come from their God-given gifts.
One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
When America does not lead, the world is a dangerous and a tragic place.
This is a bad deal.
Obama broke every rule of negotiation.
Yes, our allies are not perfect, but Iran is at the heart of most of the evil that is going on in the Middle East through their proxy.