Good question, but I want to tell you, my great concern is that we are on the verge, perhaps, of picking someone who cannot do this job.
You know, frankly, I did it in Washington, in Ohio, and I will do it again in Washington, if I'm president, to get this country moving again.
country moving again.
Listen, I want to just comment.
Well I want to comment on this.
This is the fantasy…
This is the fantasy that I talked about in the beginning.
I'm the only person on this stage that actually was involved in the chief architect of balancing the Federal Budget.
You can't do it with empty promised.
You know, these plans would put us trillions and trillions of dollars in debt.
I actually have a plan.
I'm the only one on this stage that has a plan that would create jobs, cut taxes, balance the budget and can get it done because I'm realistic.
You just don't make promises like this.
Why don't we just give a chicken in every pot, while we're, you know, coming up — coming up with these fantasy tax schemes.
We'll just clean it up.
Where are you gonna clean it up?
You have to deal with entitlements, you have to be in a position to control discretionary spending.
You gotta be creative and imaginative.
Now, let me just be clear, John.
I went into Ohio where we had an $8 billion hole and now we have a $2 billion surplus.
We're up 347,000 jobs.
When I was in Washington, I fought to get the budget balanced.
I was the architect.
It was the first time we did it since man walked on the moon.
We cut taxes and we had a $5 trillion projected surplus when I left.
That's was hard work.
Fiscal discipline, know what you're doing.
Creativity.
This stuff is fantasy.
Just like getting rid of Medicare and Medicaid.
Come on, that's just not — you scare senior citizens with that.
It's not responsible.
Well, I mean right here.
To talk about we're just gonna have a 10 percent tithe and that's how we're gonna fund the government? And we're going to just fix everything with waste, fraud, and abuse? Or that we're just going to be great? Or we're going to ship 10 million Americans — or 10 million people out of this country, leaving their children here in this country and dividing families?
Folks, we've got to wake up.
We cannot elect somebody that doesn't know how to do the job.
You have got to pick somebody who has experience, somebody that has the know-how, the discipline.
And I spent my entire lifetime balancing federal budgets, growing jobs, the same in Ohio.
And I will go back to Washington with my plan.
And I will have done it within 100 days, and it will pass.
And we will be strong again.
Thank you.
Let me just — let me respond.
First of all, Ohio does have an energy industry, but we're diversified.
We're one of the fastest growing states in the country.
We came back from the dead.
And you know what? It works very, very well.
And secondly, when you talk about me being on the board of Lehman Brothers, I wasn't on the board of Lehman Brothers.
I was a banker and I was proud of it.
And I traveled the country and learned how people made jobs.
We ought to have politicians who not only have government experience but know how the CEOs and the job creators work.
My state is doing great across the board.
And guess what, in 2011, I got a deal…
… an agreement with the…
… that he tried to take credit for four years later.
It's a joke.
John Harwood, there's a bigger issue here.
Well, first of all, when we talk about the Import Export Bank, it's time to clean up corporate welfare.
If we're gonna reform welfare for poor people, we ought to reform it for rich people, as well.
Secondly, in our state, we went from a loss of 350,000 jobs to, now, a gain of 347,000 jobs to the positive.
Our wages are growing faster than the national average, and I've cut taxes more than any sitting governor in this state — $5 billion, including no taxes on small business and killing the death tax.
I want to go back to what we were talking about earlier, this budget deal in Washington.
This is the same old stuff since I left.
You spend the money today and then you hope you're going to save money tomorrow.
I don't know if people understand, but I spent a lifetime with my colleagues getting us to a federal balanced budget.
We actually did it.
And I have a road map and a plan right now to get us to balance.
Reforming entitlements, cutting taxes.
You see, because if you really want to get to a balanced budget, you need to reduce your expenses and you need to grow your economy.
So what I will tell you about our incentives — our incentives are tight, and at the end of the day we make sure that we gain more from the creation of jobs than what we lose.
And you know what? Ohio, one of the best growing places in the country — I not only did it in Washington, I did it in Ohio, and I'll go back to Washington, and there will be no more silly deals…
… If I become President because we'll have a Constitutional Amendment to require a federally balanced budget so they will do their job.
Well, first of all, we're running a $2 billion dollar surplus, we're not having a revenue problem right now.
And, sending mixed signals to kids about drugs is a disaster.
Drugs is one of the greatest scourge in this country, and I spent five years of my administration working with my team to do a whole sort of things to try to reign in the problem of overdoses, and it goes on and on.
We could do a whole show on that.
I want to go back for a second thought on this issue of income inequality.
My program would move the 104 programs of the federal Department of Education into four block grants, and send them back to the states because income inequality is driven by a lack of skills when kids don't get what they need to be able to compete and win in this country.
The fact is, in order to get this economy moving again, I call for freezing regulations for a year except for the problem of public safety.
I believe that we need to cut these taxes down, we need to be on a roadmap to balancing the budget, and we need to send power, money, and influence, the welfare department, the education department, job training, infrastructure, Medicaid, all of that out of Washington back to the states so we can run these programs from where we live to the top, not a one size fits all mentality that they have in Washington.
And, that will get to the nub of opportunity for our children, and an ability to see wages rise.
Again…
…One more time, in Ohio, our wages are growing faster than the national average.
We've cut taxes, balanced budgets, changed the regulatory environment.
Folks, you want to —
— fix America, this is the formula.
It worked for Reagan and it works for our team in Ohio.
Thank you.
John.
I wanna tell you, in my state, we took Medicaid, the hardest program to control, and we took it from a 10 percent growth rate to 2.5 percent without taking one person off the rolls or cutting one single benefit.
And so much of what we did — to force competition, to use technology, to stand down the special interest groups — can you imagine taking Medicaid from 10 to 2.5 percent?
We can take many of those same procedures, we can apply it to Medicare.
We can make a stronger program.
But I agree with Jeb, you can't just do this by growing the economy.
You can't grow your way out of demographics.
But we can give people better health care.
And finally, on health care, why don't we start treating — keep giving…
…incentives for people to keep people healthy, rather than giving the incentives to treat them when they're sick?
I was on morning Joe at a town hall and a young student stood up and said, "Can I still be idealistic?"
Hello, I'm John Kasich, the Governor of Ohio.
Emma, and Reese, my children, and Karen, love 'ya girls.
Thanks for watching tonight.
By the way, I think I actually flew on this plane with Ronald Reagan when I was a congressman, and his goals, and mine, really much — are pretty much the same.
Lift Americans, unify, give hope, grow America, and restore it is to that great, shining city on a hill.
Yes, he was a great one, and I learned much from watching him.
The most important thing, hope to Americans, unify, lift everyone in America.
…Yeah, well…
Well, let me just say this.
First of all, I think it's a bad agreement, I would never have done it.
But, you know, a lot of our problems in the world today is that we don't have the relationship with our allies.
If we want to go everywhere alone, we will not have the strength as (ph) if we could rebuild with our allies.
Now, this agreement, we don't know what's going to happen in 18 months.
I served on the Defense Committee for 18 years.
I've seen lots of issues in foreign affairs, and foreign — in terms of global politics, you have to be steady.
Now, here's the — if they cheat, we slap the sanctions back on.
If they help Hamas, and Hezbollah, we slap the sanctions back on.
And, if we find out that they may be developing a nuclear weapon, than the military option is on the table.
We are stronger when we work with the Western civilization, our friends in Europe, and just doing it on our own I don't think is the right policy.
No, no, no.
I want to — I want to — I want to say something about what the senator just said.
No one is — no — let me — let me suggest to you we believe that we operate better in the world when our allies work with us.
President Bush did it in the Gulf War.
We work better when we are unified.
Secondly, nobody's trusting Iran.
They violate the deal, we put on the sanctions, and we have the high moral ground to talk to our allies in Europe to get them to go with us.
If they don't go with us, we slap the sanctions on anyway.
If they fund these radical groups that threaten Israel and all of the West, then we should rip up the deal and put the sanctions back on.
And let me make it clear — let me make it clear…
… if we think — if we think they're getting close to a — to developing a nuclear weapon and we get that information, you better believe that I would do everything in my power as the commander-in-chief to stop them having a nuclear weapon.
We can have it, and we can have our allies, and we can be strong as a country, and we can project across this globe with unity, not just doing it alone.
That is not what gets us where we want to get as a nation.
Well, I agree that we should defund Planned Parenthood.
I don't know many people in America who don't think that we should, and in my state, we're trying to figure out how to get it done, because we are threatened with the federal government taking all of our Medicaid money away.
I think there is a way to get this done by giving governors the ability to be able to act to defund Planned Parenthood.
But when (ph) it comes to closing down the federal government, you gotta be very careful about that.
When we shut the government down — if we have a chance at success and it's a great principle, yes.
The president of the United States is not going to sign this, and all we're gonna do is shut the government down, and then we're gonna open up — open it up, and the American people are gonna shake their heads and say, "what's the story with these Republicans?"
So I think there is a way to get to cutting off the funding for Planned Parenthood.
I was in the Congress for 18 years, balanced the budget, cut taxes, got it done.
Changed welfare, went around the president to get welfare reform done.
There are ways to do it without having to shut the government down, but I'm sympathetic to the fact that we don't want this organization to get funding, and the money ought to be reprogrammed for family planning in other organizations that don't support this tactic.
But I would not be for shutting the government down…
…because I don't think it's going to work out.
There's a —
Jake —
OK, Jake.
I don't at this point in terms of changing the incentives for investment and risk-taking.
But let's just stop for a second.
There's one person on this stage that does have a record.
I'm the only person on the stage and one of the few people in this country that led the effort as the chief architect of the last time we balanced the federal budget.
We also cut taxes.
And when I left Washington in 2000, we had a $5 trillion surplus, and the economy was booming.
I had spent 10 years of my life to get us to that point, went out in the private sector, was a great experience, and went into Ohio and took an $8 billion hole and turned it into a $2 billion surplus.
We've had the largest amount of tax cuts of any sitting governor.
We've grown well over 300,000 jobs.
You see, I've done it in both places.
I'm the only one here that has done it in both places.
It took a lot to get us to a balanced budget.
It was legitimate.
It was real.
And we negotiated it.
A lot of what we're talking about here tonight as we take this position and that position, you know what? At the end of the day, America has got to work.
We've got to figure out how we come together to deal with this — with our fiscal problems because when we deal with that, we create a stronger economy for everybody.
People have a chance to rise.
So, you know, when we think about how we make a choice, it's the person that lands that plane.
It's not somebody that talks about it.
It's about the person who has done it.
And I've done it in…
… both places.
And I did it including people in the other party.
And that's how we were successful.
And that's how I will be president, using that experience to drive this country forward.
Thank you.
Well, look, people still have to get to know me, so I want to spend my time talking about my experience reforming welfare, balancing budgets, cutting taxes, providing economic growth when I was in Washington, turning Ohio around.
Eight billion in the hole, $2 billion surplus, up over 300,000 jobs, big tax cuts, strengthening our credit.
All those things matter but, you know, as a young man in my first election in 1978, I defeated an incumbent Democrat.
I defeated an incumbent Democrat in 1982; running on the Reagan program, I was the only Republican in America to defeat an incumbent Democrat that year.
And then, when I won for election of governor, I was the first Republican to defeat an incumbent in 36 years, and the first person to have never run statewide out of politics for 10 years to beat an incumbent.
That hadn't happened for 96 years.
So, we'll get to the point where we'll talk about Hillary Clinton, or whoever the nominee is, record.
But right now, I want to give people sense of hope, sense of purpose, a sense of unity, sense that we can do it.
So, you know, at the end of the day, I'm going to continue to talk about my record, because there is, did you ever notice when people run for office, they run for president, they make a lot of promises, they don't keep them.
Can I just — can I — Jake, can I just make one point on this whole military discussion?
I called for boots on the ground many months ago in a coalition with our friends who share our interest.
You know, you win a battle with the military, and when we go somewhere, we need to be mobile, and lethal.
We need to take care of business, and we need to come home.
But, we face, also, a bigger war — and you win the bigger war with the battle of ideas.
You wonder why young people, and educated people, rich people, schooled people, have tried to join ISIS.
Western civilization, all of us, need to wake up to the fact that those murderers and rapists need to be called out, and in Western civilization we need to make it clear that our faith in the Jewish and Christian principals force us to live a life bigger than ourselves…
…to make (ph) centers (ph) of justice so that we can battle the radicals, call them out for what they are, and make sure that all of our people feel fulfilled in living in Western civilization…
…This is a giant battle in the world today…
Well, it's probably not, maybe, legal, but, I would pick Mother Theresa, the lady that I had a chance to meet, a woman who lived a life so much bigger than her own.
An inspiration to everyone when we think about our responsibility to love our neighbor as we love ourselves.
Well, I have one now — they (ph) call me, "Unit One".
My wife says, "You'll never be Unite One, I'm Unite One. You're Unit Two."
Well, as president, I will make this a nation that will solve problems.
And how? By having the elected officials and the leaders realize they're Americans before they're Republicans or Democrats.
I did it in Washington.
And I've done it in Ohio by having the elected officials realize that they're Ohioans before anything else.
Secondly, I will rebuild the relationships and show the respect to our allies around the world.
We have no choice but to do that.
We will be stronger when we are unified.
And we'll fight for freedom and for human rights.
And finally, a little bit of what Carly said.
The people that are out there listening, America was never great because we ran America from the top down.
America is great because we have run America from the bottom up, where we all live in the neighborhoods.
One more time in America, we need to revive the concept of citizenship, where everybody's actions make a huge difference in changing the world.
We have a Holocaust memorial on our state house grounds.
And there is one line on there that stands out all the time.
"If you've saved one life, you've changed the world."
We need to adopt that as citizens and rebuild and reinspire our country.
Thank you.
Well, first of all…
— first of all, Megyn, you should know that — that President Reagan expanded Medicaid three or four times.
Secondly, I had an opportunity to bring resources back to Ohio to do what?
To treat the mentally ill.
Ten thousand of them sit in our prisons.
It costs $22,500 a year…
— to keep them in prison.
I'd rather get them their medication so they could lead a decent life.
Secondly, we are rehabbing the drug-addicted.
Eighty percent of the people in our prisons have addictions or problems.
We now treat them in the prisons, release them in the community and the recidivism rate is 10 percent and everybody across this country knows that the tsunami of drugs is — is threatening their very families.
So we're treating them and getting them on their feet.
And, finally, the working poor, instead of them having come into the emergency rooms where it costs more, where they're sicker and we end up paying, we brought a program in here to make sure that people could get on their feet.
And do you know what?
Everybody has a right to their God-given purpose.
And finally, our Medicaid is growing at one of the lowest rates in the country.
And, finally, we went from $8 billion in the hole to $2 billion in the black.
We've cut $5 billion in taxes…
— and we've grown 350,000 jobs.
Chris, first of all, I was just saying to Chris Christie, they say we're outspoken, we need to take lessons from Donald Trump if we're really going to learn it.
Here is the thing about Donald Trump.
Donald Trump is hitting a nerve in this country.
He is.
He's hitting a nerve.
People are frustrated.
They're fed up.
They don't think the government is working for them.
And for people who want to just tune him out, they're making a mistake.
Now, he's got his solutions.
Some of us have other solutions.
You know, look, I balanced the federal budget as one of the chief architects when I was in Washington.
Hasn't been done since.
I was a military reformer.
I took the state of Ohio from an $8 billion hole and a 350,000 job loss to a $2 billion surplus and a gain of 350,000 jobs.
But the point is that we all have solutions.
Mr. Trump is touching a nerve because people want the wall to be built.
They want to see an end to illegal immigration.
They want to see it, and we all do.
But we all have different ways of getting there.
And you're going to hear from all of us tonight about what our ideas are.
Let's start off with my father being a mailman.
So I understand the concerns of all the folks across this country, some of whom having trouble, you know, making ends meet.
But I think she will come in a narrow way.
The nominee of this party, if they're going to win, has got to come at it in a big way, which is pro-growth.
Which is balancing budgets.
You know, we were talking about it.
People were saying, could we do it? I was the chairman of the Budget Committee and the lead architect the last time it happened in Washington, and when we did it we had great economic growth, we cut taxes, and we had a big surplus.
Economic growth is the key.
Economic growth is the key to everything.
But once you have economic growth, it is important that we reach out to people who live in the shadows, the people who don't seem to ever think that they get a fair deal.
And that includes people in our minority community; that includes people who feel as though they don't have a chance to move up.
You know, America is a miracle country.
And we have to restore the sense that the Amiracle (ph) will apply to you.
Each and every one of the people in this country who's watching tonight, lift everybody, unite everybody and build a stronger United States of America again.
It will be and can be done.
Well, look, I'm an old-fashioned person here, and I happen to believe in traditional marriage.
But I've also said the court has ruled —
Wait, Megyn, the court has ruled, and I said we'll accept it.
And guess what, I just went to a wedding of a friend of mine who happens to be gay.
Because somebody doesn't think the way I do, doesn't mean that I can't care about them or can't love them.
So if one of my daughters happened to be that, of course I would love them and I would accept them.
Because you know what?
That's what we're taught when we have strong faith.
So the issues like that, issues like that are planted to divide us.
I think the simple fact of the matter is, and this is where I would agree with Jeb, and I've been saying it all along, we need to give everybody a chance, treat everybody with respect, and let them share in this great American dream that we have, Megan.
So, look, I'm going to love my daughters, I'm going to love them no matter what they do.
Because, you know what, God gives me unconditional love.
I'm going to give it to my family and my friends and the people around me.
Well, Megyn, my father was a mailman.
His father was a coal miner.
My mother's mother could barely speak English.
And their son today stands on this podium in the great state of Ohio not only as the governor, but a candidate for president of the United States.
I do believe in miracles.
You know, I've had a lot of elections.
But my elections are really not about campaigns.
I tell my people that these are about a movement.
And a movement to do what? To restore common sense.
A movement to do things like provide economic growth.
And a movement not to let anybody be behind.
You know, today the country is divided.
You asked a question about the police and the difficulty in communities.
We've got to unite our country again, because we're stronger when we are united and we are weaker when we are divided.
And we've got to listen to other people's voices, respect them, but keep in mind, and I believe in terms of the things that I've read in my lifetime, the lord is not picking us.
But because of how we respect human rights, because that we are a good force in the world, he wants America to be strong.
He wants America to succeed.
And he wants America to lead.
And nothing is more important to me than my family, my faith, and my friends.
You know, tonight we hear about what people want to do.
I want to tell you what I've done.
I was a member of the Armed Services Committee for 18 years.
I spent a big chunk of my life studying national security issues and our role in the world.
No. 2. I was the chairman of the House Budget Committee and one of the chief architects the last time we balanced a budget, and it was the first time we had done it since man walked on the moon.
We had a $5 trillion surplus and we cut taxes.
I spent ten years in the private sector, actually learning how business works.
And now I'm the governor of Ohio, and I inherited a state that was on the brink of dying.
And we turned it all around with jobs and balanced budgets and rising credit and tax cuts, and the state is unified, and people have hope again in Ohio.