Thank you for that question.
I would begin by saying that I'm not sure it's a weakness, but I do believe that I share a sense of optimism for America's future that, today, is eroding from too many of our people.
I think there's a sense in this country today that somehow our best days are behind us.
And that doesn't have to be true.
Our greatest days lie ahead if we are willing to do what it takes now.
If we're willing to do what it takes now, the 21st century is going to be the new American century, greater than any other era we've had in the history of this great nation.
That's an interesting question.
That's exactly what the Republican establishment says too.
Why don't you wait in line? Wait for what? This country is running out of time.
We can't afford to have another four years like the last eight years.
Watching this broadcast tonight are millions of people that are living paycheck to paycheck.
They're working as hard as they ever have, everything costs more, and they haven't had a raise in decades.
You have small businesses in America that are struggling.
For the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses closing than starting.
We have a world that's out of control and has grown dangerous and a president that is weakening our military and making our foreign policy unstable and unreliable in the eyes of our allies.
And our adversaries continue to grow stronger.
We have a — they say there's no bipartisanship in Washington? We have a $19 trillion bipartisan debt and it continues to grow as we borrow money from countries that do not like us to pay for government we cannot afford.
The time to act is now.
The time to turn the page is now.
If we — if we don't act now, we are going to be the first generation in American history that leaves our children worse off than ourselves.
Let me say, I read that editorial today with a great amusement.
It's actually evidence of the bias that exists in the American media today.
Let me — let me answer your question on the Sun-Sentinel editorial today.
Back in 2004, one of my predecessors to the Senate by the name of Bob Graham, a Democrat, ran for president missing over 30 percent of his votes.
I don't recall them calling for his resignation —
Later that year, in 2004, John Kerry ran for president missing close to 60 to 70 percent of his votes.
I don't recall the Sun — in fact, the Sun-Sentinel endorsed him.
In 2008, Barack Obama missed 60 or 70 percent of his votes, and the same newspaper endorsed him again.
So this is another example of the double standard that exists in this country between the mainstream media and the conservative movement.
I get to respond, right?
Well, it's interesting.
Over the last few weeks, I've listened to Jeb as he walked around the country and said that you're modeling your campaign after John McCain, that you're going to launch a furious comeback the way he did, by fighting hard in New Hampshire and places like that, carrying your own bag at the airport.
You know how many votes John McCain missed when he was carrying out that furious comeback that you're now modeling after?
No Jeb, I don't remember — well, let me tell you.
I don't remember you ever complaining about John McCain's vote record.
The only reason why you're doing it now is because we're running for the same position, and someone has convinced you that attacking me is going to help you.
Here's the bottom line.
Well, you just — you just listed a litany of discredited attacks from Democrats and my political opponents, and I'm not gonna waste 60 seconds detailing them all.
But I'm going to tell you the truth.
Here's the truth.
I didn't inherit any money.
My dad was a bartender, my mother was a maid.
They worked hard to provide us the chance at a better life.
They didn't save enough money for us to go to school.
I had to work my way through school.
I had to borrow money to go to school.
I tried (ph), early in my marriage, explaining to my wife why someone named Sallie Mae was taking $1,000 out of our bank account every month.
And I used it to pay off my loans.
And it's available on paperback, if you're interested in buying my book.
Yeah, again, as I said, we're raising a family in the 21st century and it's one of the reasons why my tax plan is a pro- family tax plan.
It increases the per child tax credit, because I didn't read about this in a book.
I know for a fact how difficult it is to raise children, how expensive it's become for working families.
And I make a lot more than the average American.
Imagine how hard it is for these people out there that are making 40, 50, $60,000 a year, and they're trying to provide for their families at a time when this economy is not growing.
We can't afford another four years of that.
Which is what we're gonna get if we elect a big government liberal like Hillary Clinton to the White House.
Thank you, senator.
Well, first of all, if a company gets caught doing that, they should never be able to use the program again.
If you get caught abusing this program, you should never be able to use it again.
The second thing I said is we need to add reforms, not just increase the numbers, but add reforms.
For example, before you hire anyone from abroad, you should have to advertise that job for 180 days.
You also have to prove that you're going to pay these people more than you would pay someone else, so that you're not undercutting it by bringing in cheap labor.
But here's the best solution of all.
We need to get back to training people in this country to do the jobs of the 21st century.
Why, for the life of me, I do not understand why did we stop doing vocational education in America, people that can work with their hands; people you can train to do this work while they're still in high school so they can graduate ready to go work.
But the best way to close this gap is to modernize higher education so Americans have the skills for those jobs.
But in the interim, in the absence of that, what's happening is some of these tech companies are taking those — those centers (ph) to Canada because they can get people to go over there instead of here.
But the ideal scenario is to train Americans to do the work so we don't have to rely on people from abroad.
Well, I believe that there are abuses, those companies should be permanently barred from ever using the program again and we should put strict standards in place to ensure that they're not being abused, like the prevailing wage requirement and like the advertising requirement.
Since I've been mentioned, can I respond?
OK.
I know the Democrats have the ultimate SuperPac.
It's called the mainstream media who every single day…
Since I've been mentioned, can I respond?
OK.
You know, the Democrats who have the ultimate super PAC, it's called the mainstream media.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
And I'll tell you why, last week, Hillary Clinton went before a committee, she admitted she had sent emails to her family saying, hey, this attack in Benghazi was caused by al Qaeda-like elements.
She spent over a week telling the families of those victims and the American people that it was because of a video.
And yet the mainstream media is going around saying it was the greatest week in Hillary Clinton's campaign.
It was the week she got exposed as a liar.
It was the week that she got exposed as a liar…
No, that's — you're wrong.
In fact, the largest after- tax gains is for the people at the lower end of the tax spectrum under my plan.
And there's a bunch of things my tax plan does to help them.
Number one, you have people in this country that…
…you wrote a story on it, and you had to go back and correct it.
You did.
No, you did.
Well, you're talking about — yeah.
Yeah, but that — because the math is, if you — 5 percent of a million is a lot more than 5 percent of a thousand.
So yeah, someone who makes more money…
…numerically, it's gonna be higher.
But the greatest gains, percentage-wise, for people, are gonna be at the lower end of our plan, and here's why: because in addition to a general personal exemption, we are increasing the per-child tax credit for working families.
We are lowering taxes on small business.
You know, a lot of business activity in America is conducted like the guy that does my dry cleaning.
He's an S corporation.
He pays on his personal rate, and he is paying higher than the big dry-cleaning chain down the street, because he's paying at his personal rate.
Under my plan, no business, big or small, will pay more than 25 percent flat rate on their business income.
That is a dramatic tax decrease for hard-working people who run their own businesses.
…The other thing I'd like to make about our plan, one more point, it is the most pro growth tax plan that I can imagine because it doesn't tax investments at all.
You know why? Because the more you tax something, the less of it you get.
I want to be in — I want America to be the best…
…in the world for people…
I was mentioned in the question.
Thank you.
Well, I've learned the rules on this.
I want to take off from that point and argue the same thing.
And that is that one of the things you're watching tonight are 11 quality candidates debating an important issue.
The Republican Party is blessed to have 11 good candidates, (inaudible) 10 good candidates.
The Democrats can't even come up with one.
And on this issue of the Medicare in particular, it's important because they're going to demagogue what we're saying here tonight.
Everyone up here tonight that's talking about reforms, I think and I know for myself I speak to this, we're all talking about reforms for future generations.
Nothing has to change for current beneficiaries.
My mother is on Medicare and Social Security.
I'm against anything that's bad for my mother.
You know, America doesn't owe me anything.
I have a debt to America I'll never repay.
This isn't just the country I was born in, this is the nation that literally changed the history of my family.
My parents in this country were able to give me the chance to do all the things they never did.
We call that the American Dream, although, it's built on the universal dream of a better life.
The fact that it's happened for so many people here throughout our history, that's what makes us special.
But, now for millions of Americans, it's slipping away.
And, we have a government and leaders in government that are completely out of touch, and that's why I'm running for president.
Because we can't just save the American Dream, we can expand it to reach more people, and change more lives than ever before.
And, that's why tonight I'm asking you for your vote.
Thank you.
My name is Marco Rubio.
I'm from Florida.
My wife Jeanette and I are the proud — we've been married 17 years, and we're the proud parents of four children, two of whom were able to join us here this evening.
Well, first of all, I have an understanding of exactly what it is Russia and Putin are doing, and it's pretty straightforward.
He wants to reposition Russia, once again, as a geopolitical force.
He himself said that the destruction of the Soviet Union — the fall of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the 20th century, and now he's trying to reverse that.
He's trying to destroy NATO.
And this is what this is a part of.
He is exploiting a vacuum that this administration has left in the Middle East.
Here's what you're gonna see in the next few weeks: the Russians will begin to fly — fly combat missions in that region, not just targeting ISIS, but in order to prop up Assad.
He will also, then, turn to other countries in the region and say, "America is no longer a reliable ally, Egypt.
America is no longer a reliable ally, Saudi Arabia.
Begin to rely on us."
What he is doing is he is trying to replace us as the single most important power broker in the Middle East, and this president is allowing it.
That is what is happening in the Middle East.
That's what's happening with Russia, and…
Let me tell you — I will tell you we have zero responsibility, because let's remember what the president said.
He said the attack he would conduct would be a pinprick.
Well, the United States military was not build to conduct pinprick attacks.
If the United States military is going to be engaged by a commander-in-chief, it should only be engaged in an endeavor to win.
And we're not going to authorize use of force if you're not put in a position where they can win.
And quite frankly, people don't trust this president as commander-in-chief because of that.
Hold on, a second, Jake, he asked me, as well.
I'd like to actually…
… respond.
I think I'm the first senator.
In the middle of negotiating this treaty, Khamenei led the assembled masses in chanting, death to America.
I'm reminded of a great editorial cartoon.
It shows the Ayatollah Khamenei saying, "Death to all Americans," and then it shows John Kerry coming back, saying, "Can we meet ya half way?"
Ms.
Dana, I agree that English is the unifying language of our country, and everyone should learn to speak it.
It's important.
I want to tell you a story about someone that didn't speak English that well.
It was my grandfather; he came to this country in the 1960s, as a — escaping Cuba.
And he lived with us, growing up.
And my grandfather loved America.
He understood what was so special about this country.
He loved Ronald Reagan; he would be very proud of the fact that we're here this evening.
My grandfather instilled in me the belief that I was blessed to live in the one society in all of human history where even I, the son of a bartender and a maid, could aspire to have anything, and be anything that I was willing to work hard to achieve.
But he taught me that in Spanish, because it was the language he was most comfortable in.
And he became a conservative, even though he got his news in Spanish.
And so, I do give interviews in Spanish, and here's why — because I believe that free enterprise and limited government is the best way to help people who are trying to achieve upward mobility.
And if they get their news in Spanish, I want them to hear that directly from me.
Not from a translator at Univision.
Well, let me say that legal immigration is not an issue I read about in the newspaper.
Immigration, illegal immigration, all the good aspects of immigration and all the negative ones as well, I live with.
My family's immigrants.
My neighbors are all immigrants.
My in-laws are all immigrants.
So I've seen every aspect of it, and I can tell you America doesn't have one immigration problem, it has three.
First, despite the fact that we are the most generous country in the history of the world in allowing people to come here legally, we have people still coming illegally.
Second, we have a legal immigration system that no longer works.
It primary is built on the basis of whether you have a relative living here instead of merit.
And third, we have 11 million or 12 million people, many of whom have been here for longer than a decade who are already here illegally.
And we must deal with all three of these problems.
We cannot deal with all three of these problems in one massive piece of legislation.
I learned that.
We tried it that way.
Here's the way forward: First, we must — we must secure our border, the physical border, with — with a wall, absolutely.
But we also need to have an entry/exit tracking system.
40 percent of the people who come here illegally come legally, and then they overstay the visa.
We also need a mandatory e-verify system.
After we've done that, step two would be to modernize our legal immigration system so you come to America on the basis of what you can contribute economically, not whether or not simply you have a relative living here.
And after we've done those two things, I believe the American people…
… will be very reasonable and responsible about what you do with someone who's been here and isn't a criminal.
If you're a criminal, obviously, you will not be able to stay.
Yes, well, it does.
But it's in the following way, this is an important question.
I think if you're running for president, these are important issues, because look at around the world today.
There is a lunatic in North Korea with dozens of nuclear weapons and long-range rocket that can already hit the very place in which we stand tonight.
The Chinese are rapidly expanding their military.
They hack into our computers.
They're building artificial islands in the South China Sea, the most important shipping lane in the world.
A gangster in Moscow is not just threatening Europe, he's threatening to destroy and divide NATO.
You have radical jihadists in dozens of countries across multiple continents.
And they even recruit Americans using social media to try to attack us here at home.
And now we have got this horrible deal with Iran where a radical Shia cleric with an apocalyptic vision of the future is also guaranteed to one day possess nuclear weapons and also a long-range rocket that can hit the United States.
These are extraordinarily dangerous times that we live in.
And the next president of the United States better be someone that understands these issues and has good judgment about them because the number one issue that a president will ever confront, and the most important obligation that the federal government has, is to keep this nation safe.
And today we are not doing that.
We are eviscerating our military.
And we have a president that is more respectful to the ayatollah in Iran than he is to the prime minister of Israel.
Well, that's why we have a debate.
I think that we should have a deeper debate about these issues, because there is no more important decision that a president will make.
Well, you should ask him questions in detail about the foreign policy issues our president will confront, because you had better be able to lead our country on the first day.
Not six months from now, not a year from now, on the first day in office, our president could very well confront a national security crisis.
You can't predict it.
Sometimes you cannot control it.
And it is the most — the federal government does all kinds of things it's not supposed to be doing.
It regulates bathrooms.
It regulates schools that belong to local communities.
But the one thing that the federal government must do, the one thing that only the federal government can do is keep us safe.
And a president better be up-to-date on those issues on his first day in office, on her first day in office.
Trust (ph) me, I get that.
OK.
I never get to addressed, and…
…and when I do, I'm gonna jump in.
Yeah.
He did.
Let me — I'm proud to serve in the United States Senate.
You know, when I ran five years ago, the entire leadership of my party in Washington lined up against me.
But I'm glad I won.
And I'm glad that I ran, because this country's headed in the wrong direction.
And if we keep electing the same people, nothing is going to change.
And you're right, I have missed some votes, and I'll tell you why, Mr.
Trump.
Because in my years in the Senate, I've figured out very quickly that the political establishment in Washington, D.C.
in both political parties is completely out of touch with the lives of our people.
You have millions of people in this country living paycheck to paycheck, and nothing is being done about it.
We are about to leave our children with $18 trillion in — in — in debt, and they're about to raise the debt limit again.
We have a world that grows increasingly dangerous, and we are eviscerating our military spending and signing deals with Iran.
And these — if this thing continues, we are going to be the first Americans to leave our children worse off than ourselves.
That's why I'm missing votes.
Because I am leaving the Senate, I'm not running for re-election, and I'm running for president because I know this: unless we have the right president, we cannot make America fulfill its potential, but with the right person in office, the 21st century can be the greatest era that our nation has ever known.
I want to go even deeper — and I want to go even deeper in that direction, because I think the belief that somehow by retreating, America makes the world safer has been disproven every single time it's ever been tried.
Syria's a perfect example of it.
The uprising in Syria was not started by the United States; it was started by the Syrian people.
And I warned at the time — this was three and a half years ago — I openly and repeatedly warned that if we did not find moderate elements on the ground that we could equip and arm, that void would be filled by radical jihadists.
Well, the president didn't listen, the administration didn't follow through, and that's exactly what happened.
That is why ISIS grew.
That is why ISIS then came over the border from Syria and back into Iraq.
What is happening in that region is the direct consequence of the inability to lead and of disengagement.
And the more we disengage, the more airplanes from Moscow you're going to see flying out of Damascus and out of Syria…
… as you asked earlier today.
But radical terrorism cannot be solved by intellect.
It cannot — they require — what they need, is they need an operating space.
That's what Afghanistan was for Al Qaida.
It was a vacuum that they filled, and they created an operating space.
That's why they had to be drawn out of there.
That's why they had to be destroyed.
It is the reason why ISIS has grown as well.
We allowed them — we allowed a vacuum to emerge in Syria.
They used it as an operating space to grow; and today they're not just in Iraq and Syria anymore, they're now in Libya, conducting operations in the Sinai.
They're now in Afghanistan, trying to supplant the Taliban as the most powerful radical jihadist group on the ground there, as well.
You cannot allow radical jihadists to have an operating safe haven anywhere in the world.
There's a broader issue here, Hugh.
And there's a broader issue here as well.
First of all, the only people that follow the law are law-abiding people.
Criminals by definition ignore the law, so you can pass all the gun laws in the world, like the left wants.
The criminals are going to ignore it because they are criminals.
Here's the real issue.
Well, and today, we have a left-wing government under this president that is undermining all of the institutions and society that support the family and teach those values.
Because we're not going to destroy our economy the way the left-wing government that we are under now wants to do.
We're not going to…
Well, and I don't — he may have lined up with their positions on this issue.
But here is the bottom line.
Every proposal they put forward are going to be proposals that will make it harder to do business in America, that will make it harder to create jobs in America.
Single parents are already struggling across this country to provide for their families.
Maybe a billionaire here in California can afford an increase in their utility rates, but a working family in Tampa, Florida, or anywhere across this country cannot afford it.
So we are not going to destroy our economy.
We are not going to make America a harder place to create jobs in order to pursue policies that will do absolutely nothing, nothing to change our climate, to change our weather, because America is a lot of things, the greatest country in the world, absolutely.
But America is not a planet.
And we are not even the largest carbon producer anymore, China is.
And they're drilling a hole and digging anywhere in the world that they can get a hold of.
So the bottom line is, I am not in favor of any policies that make America a harder place for people to live, or to work, or to raise their families.
Jake, you mentioned me and called me a denier.
Let me say, climate change…
OK.
A skeptic.
You can measure the climate.
You can measure it.
That's not the issue we're discussing.
Here is what I'm skeptical of.
I'm skeptical of the decisions that the left wants us to make, because I know the impact those are going to have and they're all going to be on our economy.
They will not do a thing to lower the rise of the sea.
They will not do a thing to cure the drought here in California.
But what they will do is they will make America a more expensive place to create jobs.
And today with millions of people watching this broadcast that are struggling paycheck to paycheck that do not know how they're going to pay their bills at the end of this month, I'm not in favor of anything that is going to make it harder for them to raise their family.
Senator Rubio, you mean?
I know we all look alike.
The — Rosa Parks, an everyday American that changed the course of history.
Well, there are some people in Florida upset at me over a joke I made about Florida State, but, what the heck, I want my codename to be Gator.
One of the things that made Ronald Reagan a great president, is that he understood that America was a unique nation, like any other that had existed throughout human history.
He knew it was founded on universal principles that were powerful, the dignity of all people, human rights, the rights of all to live in freedom and liberty, and choose their own path in life.
He didn't just believe it, he acted on it.
That's why bringing down communism was so important to him.
If I'm honored with the opportunity to be president, I hope that our Air Force One will fly, first and foremost, to our allies; in Israel, in South Korea, and Japan.
They know we stand with them.
That America can be counted on.
It would also fly to China, not just to meet with our enemies, not just to meet with those adversaries of ours that are there, but also to meet with those that aspire to freedom and liberty within China.
I would even invite them to my inauguration.
We would also fly into Moscow and into Russia.
And not just meet with the leaders of Russia, but also meet with those who aspire to freedom and liberty in Russia.
And ultimately, I hope that my Air Force One, if I become president, will one day land in a free Cuba, where its people can choose its leaders and its own destiny.
Well, thank you for the question, Chris, and it's great to be here tonight.
Let me begin by saying this: I'm not new to the political process; I was making a contribution as the speaker of the third largest and most diverse state in the country well before I even got into the Senate.
I would add to that that this election cannot be a resume competition.
It's important to be qualified, but if this election is a resume competition, then Hillary Clinton's gonna be the next president, because she's been in office and in government longer than anybody else running here tonight.
Here's what this election better be about: This election better be about the future, not the past.
It better be about the issues our nation and the world is facing today, not simply the issues we once faced.
This country is facing an economy that has been radically transformed.
You know, the largest retailer in the country and the world today, Amazon, doesn't even own a single store? And these changes have been disruptive.
They have changed people's lives.
The jobs that once sustained our middle class, they either don't pay enough or they are gone, and we need someone that understands that as our nominee.
If I'm our nominee, how is Hillary Clinton gonna lecture me about living paycheck to paycheck? I was raised paycheck to paycheck.
How is she — how is she gonna lecture me — how is she gonna lecture me about student loans? I owed over $100,000 just four years ago.
If I'm our nominee, we will be the party of the future.
Let me set the record straight on a couple of things.
The first is, the evidence is now clear that the majority of people coming across the border are not from Mexico.
They're coming from Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras.
Those countries are the source of the people that are now coming in its majority.
I also believe we need a fence.
The problem is if El Chapo builds a tunnel under the fence, we have to be able to deal with that too.
And that's why you need an e-verify system and you need an entry-exit tracking system and all sorts of other things to prevent illegal immigration.
But I agree with what Governor Kasich just said.
People are frustrated.
This is the most generous country in the world when it comes to immigration.
There are a million people a year who legally immigrate to the United States, and people feel like we're being taken advantage of.
We feel like despite our generosity, we're being taken advantage of.
And let me tell you who never gets talked about in these debates.
The people that call my office, who have been waiting for 15 years to come to the United States.
And they've paid their fees, and they hired a lawyer, and they can't get in.
And they're wondering, maybe they should come illegally.
And so these are important issues, and we should address it.
It's a serious problem that needs to be addressed, and otherwise we're going to keep talking about this for the next 30 years, like we have for the last 30 years.
Well, first off, I too believe in curriculum reform.
It is critically important in the 21st Century.
We do need curriculum reform.
And it should happen at the state and local level.
That is where educational policy belongs, because if a parent is unhappy with what their child is being taught in school, they can go to that local school board or their state legislature, or their governor and get it changed.
Here's the problem with Common Core.
The Department of Education, like every federal agency, will never be satisfied.
They will not stop with it being a suggestion.
They will turn it into a mandate.
In fact, what they will begin to say to local communities is, you will not get federal money unless do you things the way we want you to do it.
And they will use Common Core or any other requirements that exists nationally to force it down the throats of our people in our states.
That's a great question.
That's a great question.
First of all, it begins by having leaders that recognize that the economy we live in today is dramatically different from the one we had five years ago.
It's an economy that now has placed us in global competition with dozens of other countries around the world.
Now, the big companies that have connections with Washington, they can affect policies to help them, but the small companies like the one Tania is talking about, they're the ones that are struggling.
The first thing we need to do is we need to even out the tax code for small businesses so that we lower their tax rate to 25 percent, just as we need to lower it for all businesses.
We need to have a regulatory budget in America that limits the amount of regulations on our economy.
We need to repeal and replace Obamacare and we need to improve higher education so that people can have access to the skills they need for 21st century jobs.
And last but not least, we need to repeal Dodd-Frank.
It is eviscerating small businesses and small banks.
Well, Megyn, first of all, I'm not sure that that's a correct assessment of my record.
I would go on to add that I believe all–
I have never said that.
And I have never advocated that.
What I have advocated is that we pass law in this country that says all human life at every stage of its development is worthy of protection.
In fact, I think that law already exists.
It is called the Constitution of the United States.
And let me go further.
I believe that every single human being is entitled to the protection of our laws, whether they can vote or not.
Whether they can speak or not.
Whether they can hire a lawyer or not.
Whether they have a birth certificate or not.
And I think future generations will look back at this history of our country and call us barbarians for murdering millions of babies who we never gave them a chance to live.
Well, first, let me say I think God has blessed us.
He has blessed the Republican Party with some very good candidates.
The Democrats can't even find one.
And I believe God has blessed our country.
This country has been extraordinarily blessed.
And we have honored that blessing.
And that's why God has continued to bless us.
And he has blessed us with young men and women willing to risk their lives and sometimes die in uniform for the safety and security of our people.
Unfortunately today we have a VA that does not do enough for them.
I am proud that last year we helped change the law.
We changed the law to give the power to the VA secretary the ability to fire any executive that isn't doing their job.
And it is outrageous they've only fired one person to date.
When I'm president of the United States, we're going to have a VA that cares more about our veterans than about the bureaucrats who work at the VA.
Thank you.
You know, both of my parents were born into poor families on the island of Cuba.
They came to America because it was the only place where people like them could have a chance.
Here in this country, they never made it big, but the very purpose of their life was to give us the chance to do all the things they never could.
My father was a bartender.
And the journey from the back of that bar to this stage tonight, to me, that is the essence of the American dream.
It is what makes our nation different.
And I'm running for president because I want that to still be possible for the people trying to do that now.
I run for president because I believe that we can't just save the American dream; we can expand it to reach more people and change more lives than ever before.
And that's why I'm asking for your vote.
So we can make America greater than it has ever been.
And make this century a new American century.